
           
 
 

Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) 
 
 

Source: Roos EM, Roos HP, Lohmander LS, Ekdahl C, Beynnon BD. Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis 
Outcome Score (KOOS)--development of a self-administered outcome measure. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther. 
1998 Aug;28(2):88-96. 

 

The Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) is a questionnaire designed to assess short and 
long-term patient-relevant outcomes following knee injury. The KOOS is self-administered and assesses five 
outcomes: pain, symptoms, activities of daily living, sport and recreation function, and knee-related quality of 
life. The KOOS meets basic criteria of outcome measures and can be used to evaluate the course of knee 
injury and treatment outcome. KOOS is patient-administered, the format is user-friendly and it takes about 10 
minutes to fill out. 

Scoring instructions 
The KOOS's five patient-relevant dimensions are scored separately: Pain (nine items); Symptoms (seven 
items); ADL Function (17 items); Sport and Recreation Function (five items); Quality of Life (four items). A 
Likert scale is used and all items have five possible answer options scored from 0 (No problems) to 4 
(Extreme problems) and each of the five scores is calculated as the sum of the items included. 

Interpretation of scores 
Scores are transformed to a 0–100 scale, with zero representing extreme knee problems and 100 
representing no knee problems as common in orthopaedic scales and generic measures. Scores between 0 
and 100 represent the percentage of total possible score achieved. 

 

 Page 1  

 



Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS)  

 

 Page 2  

 

Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) 

Pain 

P1 How often is your knee painful?  Never  Monthly  Weekly  Daily  Always 

What degree of pain have you experienced the last week when…? 

P2  Twisting/pivoting on your knee  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

P3  Straightening knee fully  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

P4  Bending knee fully  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

P5  Walking on flat surface  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

P6  Going up or down stairs  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

P7  At night while in bed  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

P8  Sitting or lying  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

P9  Standing upright  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

Symptoms 

Sy1  How severe is your knee 
 stiffness after first wakening in 
 the morning? 

 None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

Sy2  How severe is your knee 
 stiffness after sitting, lying, or 
 resting later in the day? 

 None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

Sy3  Do you have swelling in your 
 knee? 

 Never  Rarely  Sometimes  Often  Always 

Sy4  Do you feel grinding, hear 
 clicking or any other type of 
 noise when your knee moves? 

 Never  Rarely  Sometimes  Often  Always 

Sy5  Does your knee catch or hang 
 up when moving? 

 Never  Rarely  Sometimes  Often  Always 

Sy6  Can you straighten your knee 
 fully? 

 Always  Often  Sometimes  Rarely  Never 

Sy7 Can you bend your knee fully?  Always  Often  Sometimes  Rarely  Never 

 

 

 



Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS)  

 

 Page 3  

 

Activities of daily living 

What difficulty have you experienced the last week…? 

A1 Descending   None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A2  Ascending stairs  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A3  Rising from sitting  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A4  Standing  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A5  Bending to floor/picking up an 
 object 

 None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A6  Walking on flat surface  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A7  Getting in/out of car  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A8  Going shopping  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A9  Putting on socks/stockings  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A10  Rising from bed  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A11  Taking off socks/stockings  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A12   Lying in bed (turning over, 
 maintaining knee position) 

 None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A13  Getting in/out of bath  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A14  Sitting  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A15  Getting on/off toilet  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A16  Heavy domestic duties 
 (shovelling, scrubbing floors, 
 etc) 

 None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

A17  Light domestic duties (cooking, 
 dusting, etc) 

 None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

Sport and recreation function 

What difficulty have you experienced the last week…? 

Sp1  Squatting  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

Sp2  Running  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

Sp3  Jumping  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

Sp4  Turning/twisting on your injured 
 knee 

 None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

Sp5  Kneeling  None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 



Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS)  

 

 Page 4  

 

Knee-related quality of life 

 

Q1  How often are you aware of your 
 knee problems? 

 Never  Monthly  Weekly  Daily  Always 

Q2  Have you modified your lifestyle 
 to avoid potentially damaging 
 activities to your knee? 

 Not at all  Mildly  Moderately  Severely  Totally 

Q3  How troubled are you with lack 
 of confidence in your knee? 

 Not at all  Mildly  Moderately  Severely  Totally 

Q4  In general, how much difficulty 
 do you have with your knee? 

 None  Mild  Moderate  Severe  Extreme 

 

 

 

 


	Scoring instructions
	The KOOS's five patient-relevant dimensions are scored separately: Pain (nine items); Symptoms (seven items); ADL Function (17 items); Sport and Recreation Function (five items); Quality of Life (four items). A Likert scale is used and all items have five possible answer options scored from 0 (No problems) to 4 (Extreme problems) and each of the five scores is calculated as the sum of the items included.

	Interpretation of scores
	Scores are transformed to a 0–100 scale, with zero representing extreme knee problems and 100 representing no knee problems as common in orthopaedic scales and generic measures. Scores between 0 and 100 represent the percentage of total possible score achieved.
	Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS)
	Pain
	Symptoms
	Activities of daily living
	Sport and recreation function
	Knee-related quality of life


