
Child Health and Education in the Seventies

A national study in England, Wales and Scotland of all children born 5th—11th April 1970

 

 

Under the auspices of the University of Bristol Department of Child Health Research Unit
and the National Birthday Trust Fund University of Bristol
Bristol BS2 8BH
Director: Professor Neville R. Butler, MD, FRCP, OCH Tel. Bristol 26491/27745
Health District Code Child‘’s Local Serial Number Child’s Central Survey Number
- CONFIDENTIAL
BDODSA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PINGLIE TON OK TIN = DOOD
MATERNAL SELF-COMPLETION QUESTIONNAIRE

To the Mother:

This questionnaire is part of a survey into the health and education of 5 year old children. In this form we
are asking about the behaviour of your child, your own health and your opinions on a number of subjects.
We hope that you will be able to find time to complete the form and that you will find it of interest. We
would be grateful to have any remarks you may care to make about the questions in this form and you will
find space for this on the last page. All information will be treated in the strictest confidence.

If you should have any difficulty in filling in any part of the form, the Health Visitor will be pleased to
advise you,

Please leave blank

SECTION 1. Child’s Behaviour ne

. . . 4. |
Please put a cross in the box by the answer which best describes which is true about your poo

child’s behaviour.

The following examples will help you to see what is required.

 

 

 

Example 1 Never in Less than At least At least -
the last once a once a once a
PLEASE SAY IF: 12 months month month week
6-8
Child has dizzy spells CJ X< LJ C)
Child complains of aching back or limbs | C] LJ 4

 

 

 

The crosses in these boxes mean that this child has dizzy spells less than once a month, and complains
of aching back or limbs at least once a week.

Example 2
DOES CHILD HAVE ANY DIFFICULTY DRESSING?
NO L)
YES oJ ————_——_ IF YES, is this with:
SHOES ooo. cece eee ee ee ee eee e sect eeeeneveceeeeeeees CJ
SOCKS oosseeeesseeessssceeseeeesesersessenseeestesesseaseeesetees x
PANS ooo eee cc ce cccecececececeeececeeeceeeeeeeeesaeneneeeeeee: C]
Shirts/dresses tC. ..... eee cceeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeenceeees {]
BULONS 00002. ee ee eee tenet teen eeeeseeeeeeeeeeeees x
ZIPS cecccccececcccccecceceueeeeeeecsecceveseceececeeseeueceseeeus CJ

The crosses in these boxes mean that this child has difficulty in dressing, and socks and buttons are
the main problems.

PLEASE TURN OVER THE PAGE AND ANSWER THE QUESTIONS

 




PLEASE ANSWER EVERY QUESTION

1. Below is a list of minor health problems which most children have at some time. Please
tell us how often each of these happens with your child by putting a cross in the box
which best describes this.

 

 

 

 

Never in Less than At least At least
the last once a once a once a
12months month month week
DOOG {Complains of headaches CI C] C] C]
DOOF — {Complains of stomach-ache or has vomited L] C) LI CJ
DOO S  |Complains of biliousness (J ] C] J
; . Has temper tantrums (that is, complete loss of
DOO | temper with shouting, angry movements, etc.) CJ LO C CL]

 

 

 

Most children go through “‘difficult’’ stages. Please show by putting a cross in the correct boxes
whether or not your child has any of the following difficulties at the present time.
Please answer every question.

2. DOES YOUR CHILD HAVE ANY SLEEPING DIFFICULTY?

No “polo
YES — MILD (J
IF YES, which of the following difficulties does he/she
Yes—SeveReE ([_] have?
getting off to sleep oo... eee D ot sees LC
waking during the night we DQIZ.... LJ
waking early in the morning............ Poi... CL)
nightmares or night terrors .............6 Pon {]
sleepwal KING ......... cece ccceeseneeereeeeeece en ee DO'S... {_]

Please describe any sleeping difficulties, including those above:

3. DOES CHILD EVER WET THE BED AT NIGHTS? IDO(G A {B

NO __] ————_- IF NO. at what age gid Refsnes cececcsneecseesneeseeeees
YES [_] ———————- IF YES, is it:
very occasionally (less than once a week)........ {J
occasionally (at least once a week) .............06 CI
MOSt MIGHtS 20... ceece ee esceceeceeceeereceueceseeareasenerees CJ
OVETY NIGH oo... ceeecee cesses ceesceeeecesenseeereceeneesecerees CJ

4, DOES CHILD EVER WET HIS/HER PANTS IN THE DAYTIME?

NO oO DotA |B

YES (_} —————— IF YES, is it:
very occasionally (less than once a week)........ Cc]
occasionally (at least once a week)................. (J
MOS GAYS 20... cece ceeeceeeceeeeeeseesesceseeeeeecesceeeeeeentees J
OVETY DAY . 2... ccececccaceceeeceaeeeteecnceseecceenersesarerenes J

5. DOES CHILD EVER SOIL OR MAKE A MESS IN HIS/HER PANTS?

NO oO DOISA le

YES {_] —————— IF YES, is it:
very occasionally (less than once a week)........ {J
occasionally (at least once a week) ............06 {-]
MOSt CAYS........c ces csese cece eeeseeeeeeenseeens see teneeesereeeee J
CVELY GAY ooo. ec cecccsccceeceeceesee cece ceseeesececaceeeceeecenens im

 

Please leave blank

 

9_12

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14, 15

 




6. DOES CHILD HAVE ANY EATING OR APPETITE PROBLEMS?
NO C] DO!IF

Please leave blank

YES — MILD |
IF YES, is it:
yes—severe L]

nb020....

not eating enough .............

DO? |}
over-eating for more than the oc SA meal. J

 

 

 

 

FAACINGSS .... 0. cee cec eset tee ceeneteree sere bo22 sesenee (J
Please describe any other eating problem:
tease ODE i cccccsseesssssetssseisenermesesssnesessssssssssssessssssssissasssnsasisesasessessstisnsssssasesasesnsansesteee 19,20
7. DOES CHILD ATTEND SCHOOL, NURSERY SCHOOL, PLAYGROUP OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT?
NO CL) DO24a
YES LC IF YES, has he/she had tears on arrival
NO ceccssssessssnensseesesensnssoee poe2ts Oo
YES, once or twice a week ............c0.-eceesseeeeees CI
YES, every day ........cc cee cccscescneseeceeesecneerteesreres CJ

8. Below is a series of descriptions of behaviour often shown by children. After each state-
ment are three columns — “Doesn‘t apply”, ‘““Applies somewhat’, and “Certainly
applies’. If your child definitely shows the behaviour described by the statement put a
cross in the box under “Certainly applies’. If he/she shows the behaviour described by
the statement but to a lesser degree or less often, place a cross under ‘‘Applies
somewhat’. If, as far as you are aware, your child does not show the behaviour, place a
cross under “‘Doesn’t apply”.

Please put one cross against each statement.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Doesn't Applies Certainly

apply somewhat applies
Very, restos, Often running about or O dogs O =
Is squirmy or fidgety CJ Do26
Often destroys own or others’ belongings [J D024 L) (J [oY
Frequently fights with other children Ci pogg CO [ass |
Not much liked by other children (J D024 | 1
Often worried, worries about many things CJ DOZ0 CI CJ
solitary do things on his own — rather FL] DoO3! CI CI
Irritable. Is quick to “fly off the handle”. (1 Ddpo32 C 26-29
Often appears miserable, unhappy, tearful ff] po3232 0 Cl
Sometimes takes things belonging to others C] DO 3u CJ CI
res, or body mannerisms or tics of the C] Do3S CJ CO
Frequently sucks thumb or finger OC] Do 36 CJ LJ 30-33
Frequentty bites nails or fingers | Do3 t CJ C]
Is often disobedient CL] DoZs C CI
Pannot settle to anything for more thana Cc DO 2q C C]
Tends to be fearful or afraid of new things Cc Do LO CI _] sas
ts fussy or over particular CJ DoY { LJ J
Often tells lies LI pos CI {J
Bullies other children pees CJ 38-40

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




SECTION 2 Mother's Health

Many mothers find caring for their children difficult if their own health is not very good. Listed
below are a number of common symptoms that mothers often describe to doctors. We would
like you to say if these happen to you by putting a ring round Yes or No as in the examples
given.

Here are two EXAMPLES:

Do your hands often tremble? 0... cccccsssessececsencsectesceeceeetsussscececereesestrssteessssecsee  VOS
Are you worried about travelling long distances? ............ccccseeeecececeuseececccuseeeerees No

This means my hands do not tremble but | am worried about travelling long distances.

PLEASE RING THE CORRECT ANSWER TO EACH OF THE FOLLOWING:

 

Do you often have back-ache? sccssssasesscsesameesessasaeveceesnvessestavesssssieseessasaesessneed Ott Yes No

No

No
Do you often have bad headaches? cece ceececcceeeceseceeececeenseeadeescueveesacseceeessasessaeed RO ut Yes No
Do you often get worried about things? .......ccccccccscsscssccecccecsseseecsccueaucesesonsunes D O48 Yes No
Do you usually have great difficulty in falling asleep or staying asleep? ........ Do4T Yes No
Do you usually wake unnecessarily early in the Morning?.............00ccccceeeeseeeeee DOSO Yes No
Do you wear yourself out worrying about your health? ceesssttttststitssssendded | Yes No
Do you often get into a violent rage? sesssssssststitutisusasasesssssssssssssssiussanndoOod Yes No
Do people often annoy and irritate YOU? seccccsscssssesssesecesesesssessrssssssessesssecsss OOD Yes No
Have you at times had a twitching of the face, head or shoulders? vecssttessreessen dS 4 Yes No
Do you often suddenly become scared for No good reasONn? ..........ccseceeeeeceseeeee Doss Yes No
Are you scared to be alone when there are no friends near YOu? ..........ceeseeeeeeee DOSG Yes No
Are you easily upset Or irritated? ooo... eee cc cccseecsesecceee aces cececsacceceecceseneueceeeeaners D OSF Yes No
Are you frightened of going out alone or of meeting people? ou... eee ceeeee eee bess Yes No
Are you constantly keyed up and itty 2 occccccccccscesevececesseesesesecesssessesesesesseesee HOS Yes No
Do you suffer from indigestion? ooo... cccccccccssescssscesencsssseeaecesecesecceneesecececsecseasee NO6O Yes No
Do you often suffer from an upset StOMACH? .eoceccsseecsssessseesseecessessreeserseeesseesee A OB |, Yes No
Is YOU APPetIte POOK? oo... ececeeccessccccecescueccececeucusecuesceecucavessecesscacecerersausececaeans Doe2 Yes No
Does every little thing get on your nerves and wear you out? cecseetttsnsessesein 0063 Yes No
Does your heart often race like Mad?.........ccccccssscssecesseeesseeecesecececsseeesseesseerseeees DO64+ Yes No
Do you often have bad pains in your CyeS?........ sce ceccececcesscccccascescececssceuceerceneens R 06S Yes No
Are you troubled with rheumatism or FiDFOSitIS? .ocsccscccescsessssssssssssrerssesssesens nd OG Yes No
Have you ever had a nervous breakdown? “sssssssssstistnsssssiststessessssssssisetsessessseadd OlF Yes No
Do you have any other health problems worrying YOU? ...........cccsecsscecseeeeeneesaeeee dD 06% Yes | No

 

-

IF YES, please describe in your own words:

 

Please leave blank

 

 

 

 

41-44

 

 

 

 

[___ 45°48 i

 

 

 

 

49-52

 

 

 

53-56

 

 

 

 

57-60

 

 

 

 

 

61-64

 

 

 

65-68

 

 

 




SECTION 3 Opinions

This section asks for your opinion about a wide range of subjects. Please give your own
opinions and do not worry about what others may think. There are no “‘correct’’ answers to
the questions. We expect you will agree with some statements and disagree with others.

If you strongly agree, ring the ‘A’
If you mildly agree, ring the ‘a’
If you mildly disagree, ring the ‘d‘

If you strongly disagree, ring the ‘D’

If you cannot say whether you agree or disagree with a statement, for
instance when it ‘‘depends on circumstances’’, ring the ‘X’

Please try to answer every one, but if you do not understand a state-

ment leave it out.

These three examples should help you to see how to answer the questions.

Example 1

People are not very co-operative these days
This means | strongly disagree with this statement
Example 2

If people were not so selfish the world would be a
happier place

This means | mildly agree with this statement

Example 3

No marriage is complete without children

This means | strongly agree with this statement

PLEASE ANSWER EVERY QUESTION

1. Women need something more from life than
they can get by just looking after the home and
children

2. Such activities as painting and playing should

take second place to teaching reading and
arithmetic in infant schools

3. Girls should accept the fact that they will
marry and have children and not think about
starting a career

4, Strictly disciplined children rarely grow up to
be the best adults

5, Young children who never see children’s T.V.
miss a lot which is of value

6. It’s best not to visit children under five in
hospital because it is too upsetting for the child

7. Women should have the same work opportu-
nities as men

8. lf a child is often allowed to have his own way
while he is young he will be uncontrollable later

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Strongly Mildly Cannot Mildiy Strongly

agree agree say disagree disagree
A a x d ° (0)
A (@) x d D

(A) a Xx d D

Strongly Mildly Cannot Mildly Strongly

agree agree say disagree disagree
A a x d dp [D064
A a x d D IDOto
A a x d D DOF!
A a Xx d D DOF 2.
A a x d D IDOFS
A a x d D DoF uy
A a x d Dp |IDOFS
A a x d D iDOF6

 

 

 

Please leave blank

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13-16

 

 

 




10.

17.

18.

20.

21,

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

A person that does not let others stand in his
way is to be admired

Things should be made easier for unmarried
mothers

Increases in vandalism and delinquency are
largely due to the fact that children nowadays
lack strict discipline

Children should not be allowed to talk at the
meal table

Children under five should always accept what
their parents say as being true

Mothers need a break from their children from
time to time during the day

T.V. is a useful way of keeping the children
amused

It is unreasonable to expect hospitals to upset
their routine by allowing unlimited visiting in
children’s wards

Parents should treat young children as equals

Young children pick up a lot of bad habits
from T.V.

One of the things parents must do is sort out
their children’s quarrels for them and decide
who is right and wrong

Some equality in marriage is a good thing, but
by and large the husband ought to have the
main say-so in family matters

Nothing is worse than a person who does not
feel a great ove, gratitude, and respect for his
parents

Unquestioning obedience is not a good thing in
a young child

The State should open more day nurseries so as
to make it easier for mothers of young children
to go out to work

The trouble with hospital specialists is that
they never have time to explain al! their
patients would like to know

People should be satisfied with their lot in this
world and not struggle to get more

A mother who always gives in to her young
child’s demands for attention will spoil him

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sarees” agree’ sav disagree disagree,

A a x d dp [DOTT
A a x d bd ipots
A a x d dp ([DO+
A a x d D IDOsO
A a x d 0 |DOS!
A a xX d D DCR?
A a x d dD {hbO83
A a x d D pOSYy
A a x d dD |DOSS
A a x d dp |DO&G
A a x d D \DOSt
A a x d D [DOSS
A a x d dp |DOS4
A a x d D IDC FO
A a x d DB IDCF!
A a x d D |jPo>T?
A a x d D IhoOd3
A a x d pd |DOVY

 

 

 

Please leave blank

 

 

 

 

17-20

 

 

 

21-24

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

25-28

 

 

 

29-32

 

 

 




27.

28.

29.

30,

31.

33,

35.

37.

40.

41.

42,

43.

There is nothing wrong with a mother going
out to work if her children can be properly
cared for by someone else

Teaching 5 year old children obedience and
respect for authority is not as important as ail
that

lf pre-school children would pay more attention
to what they are told instead of just having
their own ideas they would tearn more
quickly

A mother who leaves her children with some-
one else in order to go out to work is not fit to
be a mother unless she needs the money for
food and clothes

A child should not be allowed to talk back to
his parents

There are many things a 5 year old child must
do with no explanation from his parents

A young child must be allowed to be himself
even if this means going against his parents’
wishes

Parents must face the fact that teenagers have
different morals to their own when they were
that age and must put up with it

It is not surprising if educational standards are
falling when children have so much freedom in
school nowadays

A wife must sacrifice her right to go out to
work once she has children

A mother should accept that her children are
sometimes too busy to do as she asks

You cannot expect a child under five to under-
stand how another person feels

A well brought up child is one who does not
have to be told twice to do something

A mother's proper place is at home with her
children

Children under five should never be allowed
to watch adult T.V.

Children who get upset whilst in hospital soon
get over it afterwards

Girls are just as capable as boys of learning to
be engineers

 

 

DOUs

 

DOWG

 

 

DOWt

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DOS

DOW

DICO

DIO}

DIC2Z

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Strongly Mildly Cannot Mildly. Strongly
agree agree say disagree disagree
A a x d D
A a x d D
A a x d D
A a x d D
A a x d D
A a x d D
A a 4 d D
A a x d D
A a x d D
A a x d D
A a Xx d D
A a x d D
A a Xx d D
A a x d D
A a x d D
A a x d D

A a Xx d D

DIO3

DIO

DIOS

DIOE

DIOF

DICS

DICT

DIC

DI

 

 

 

Please leave blank

 

 

 

 

33-36

 

 

 

 

 

37-40

 

 

 

 

 

41-44

 

 

 

 

45-48

 

 

 

 

 

45-51

 




The last few questions on this page are to give us some idea about how you got on with the Please leave blank
form.

1, Did you have any difficulty in understanding any of the questions? D! | 2

NO, no difficultics c.cccccccecccssssssssessecsessessesseesecsecsessesteseeeneaneneens C]
YES, some questions were GiffiCUlt....... ec cececeeee cree ceeeeeeeeeeee CJ
YES, many questions were difficult 0... ee eee ee eteeeeee eee J

IF YES, please say which questions were difficult and why

 

2 Did you have any difficulty in making up your mind about any questions? DI | uy
NO, m0 Gif fiCUIEY occ cece cess eecese eesti steetesteesneerence eccsccssseessees LJ
YES, some GiffiCul ty occ... ccccsscecceseecsessecessveeceeseesesenesessecanentesnees LJ
YES, alot of ifficulty 00 ce ccc ee ee tetas teen eeeenee |

1\F YES, please say which questions and why

 

~~ y
cveseressrivcevaatavessusessiesstustavvsesissssvtisnatessaties tities itissesiusstipassnisssesniesseesneceseesseseteeneesuieseeneeaneetens |
veces vatusueaececucesctesssavececssensnaecaescanseecnsssessuesssecsssesccsceaeensrecesceeuisaseeeseaeeacceseaecsiseseseaneneez prageesenaeeeees 34,557
3 Who answered this form? D1] &
Mother alone o.oo. cccc cece cece cece eeee eee een ceeaeeseen cece ceeeneeuaeeseeeeens [_]
Father alone oo... cece cece ee cces cence cece eee ceeee eee een ee tenance eeeaeeseesenes |
Mother and father together 0.0.0.0... ce cccc cece cee cee e nett ee eben tenee es C 56
4. How long did it take to complete? ———
| |
ceeeeeee DUA. minutes 57,58 |
5. Any other comments about the form:

 

 

 

 

59-62

 

SEE PAGE Sa

THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR ALL YOUR HELP

 




Page 8a

Procedure Adopted for Completion of MSCQ= D118A
Rutter Score Based on Simple Summing= D119
Missing Items For Vars 119 & 120= D121

Malaise Score= D122

Malaise Score Grouped= D122A

Malaise. Number not stated= D123

Zscore: Attitude to Maternal Employment= D124A
Zscore: Attitude to Sex Equality= D124B

Zscore: Attitude to Better Life for Women= D124C
Zscore: Attitude to TV Viewing= D124D

Zscore: Attitude to Hospital Visiting= D124E
Authoritarian World View= D124F

Authoritarian Child Rearing= D124G

Zscore: Attitude to Child Independence= D124H



