
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Child Health and Education in the Seventies

A national study in England, Wales and Scotland of all children born Sth—11th April 1970

Under the auspices of the University of Bristol! Department of Child Health Research Unit

and the Nationa! Birthday Trust Fund University of Bristol
Bristot BS2 8BH

Director: Professor Neville R, Butler, MD, FRCP, OCH Tel. Bristol 27745/2204 1

tn association with:
Area Health Authorities in England and Wales
Heaith Boards in Scotland

Research team:
N.R. Butler

A. F. Osborn, BA
8. C. Howlett, BSc, FSS, MBCS
S. F. O. Dowling, BSc, MB, BS Co-sponsors:
M. C. Fraser, SRN, SCM, HV Tutor Cert. Health Visitors’ Association
CONFIDENTIAL
HOME INTERVIEW QUESTIONNAIRE
Health District Code Child’s Local Serial Number Chitd’s Central Survey Number

 

Litt yet | Seen

Details of child born Sth—-11th April 1970

If twins use separate questionnaire for each. Please use block capitals.
Full name of the Child bebe beeen eee pee eeeeee ee bette eee . Sex .
Singleton or twin, specify... FOO! cosets tives wees. Date of birth, _ Apri 1970

Present home address in full... . E004 we

Address of child’s present placement if living away from home. Please specify if hospital, residential home, etc.

 

N.H.S. Doctor with whom child is registered /f not registered, put NONE.

Name ooo cece cee cecetcceceeneee

Full home address of mother at time she gave birth to child.
If not known, put NOT KNOWN. If same home address as above, put AS ABOVE.

 

Mother's maiden mame ooo... occ ccccccccccecceecescesevevee cueees
(These details are needed for matching purposes only}

Address of place of birth. Please specify whether maternity hospital, G.P. unit, home, etc.

 

NOTES
1. Please read ‘‘Survey Notes and information” in conjunction with this questionnaire.
2. Throughout the questionnaire the study child is designated by the letter N.

3. It is important that no question should remain unanswered without explanation.




SECTION A FAMILY COMPOSITION

A.1_— (a} People in the household ‘
A household consists of a group of people who all live at the same address and who are all catered for by the same person.
List befow all the members of this household. Include the study child, N, the present Parents and others, €.g. relatives
or lodgers, who are members of this household. Exclude any who are only at home for short Periods: enter these in
table (b) below.

 

 

 

 

 

Relationship to N {eg D
father, step-brother) or Surname First n ate of
status in the household ' amels) Sex birth
{e.9. lodger)
i 1, Study child—N 14770
!
2. ‘og
3. ig

 

* No. PERSONS IN HOUSEHOLD : E00 i
No. CHILDREW OLDER THAN CHILD: E006 le | .
® No. CHILDREN YOUNGER THAN CHILD: E007 rt

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 fof
8 it
9. Af
10. ‘7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

{b) List below any members of the family not included in the above table, for example, those who are only home for
holidays of leave, and enquire or state from your own knowledge the reason for absence, for example at residential
school, or working away.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

    

. . - Oate of Reason for absence
Relationshio to N Surname Fiest name(s) Sex birth trom home
AGE OF MOTHER : Eook AGE OF FATHER - E009 ;
A.2 (a) What is the relationship to N of the AZ (al What 1s the relationship to N of the

Person now acting as his/her mother? person now acting as his/her father?
Relationship to N E oO 10 Relationship toN I !
Natural mother...) ee 1 Natural father . Lee EO os a
Mother by legal adoption ........... 2 Father by legal adoption ........... 2
Stepmother Stepfather 2220.22. 3
Foster mother ............ Foster father
Grandmother... 0.20.00. 0 20. -+. 9 Grandfather |.
Elder sister 2... ee & Elder brother
Cohabitee of father 202... ..2.0... 7 Cohabitee of mother
Other mother figure, specily 20.22... 8 Other father figure. specify
No mother figure ................. 9 No father figure... 2... 9

{b) Please give reason(s) for any past chan- (b} Please give reason(s) for any past chan-
ges in N’s situation, e.g. family changes, ges in N’s situation, e.g. family changes,
mother died, etc. father died, etc.

EOIOA EDIIA

(ch If N is not nowliving with natural mother, {ec} Lf N is not now fiving with natural father,
i.e. 2-9 singed, please ask when this 1.e. 2-9 ringed, please ask when this
Situation began, situation began.

Month Year Moath Year

Situation began . £0108 wee eee Situation began |. Eo ll B see

 

Except in Q's 8.1 to 8.4 and 8.23 where information is specifically required about N’s natural mother or
father, the terms “father” or “present father” are used to denote the present father figure identified in
Q Aa). The terms “mother” or “present mother” are used to denote the present mother figure identified
in Q. A 2fal.

 




SECTION B MEDICAL HISTORY AND PRESENT HEALTH

6.1 Enter obstetric details on the study child, N, and on all liveborn and stillborn children born subsequently
to N‘s natural mother, Include also children no longer living with theic natural mother, Record each
member of twin pair separately, Exctude miscarriages. (Some chitdren in this table will be included also
in table A.1 on page opposite),

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

s
x S
< ! A
oe - of S
° wf 9 LIAS
is se & fo GIN died,
cause of death
jJ—40 Jif fF is2 0
see —LL ||-__- + 1] 2 OF ee
Lt L 112 OY eee
esecsuseceeseeesseseecsenesecaces fa_—LL_.f} 2
. Li L 142 a.
. seeseesese -f—LL_ ]}-__ 4 J 142 9

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SEE PAGE 3a.

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

8.2 How soon after N’s birth did the mother first start to have regular contact with N, to hold and/or
feed, not just took at?

Within 24 hours of birth oo FOIBA i. wee
Between 25 and 48 hours after birth. oes
On the third day or later, 1.2. more than 48 hrs. after birth

 

 

NOC KNOWN ool cece tect nee ceateentne secs

tf on third day or later, how many days after N’s birth did regular contact start? 7. £O/88 wede

e.g. for third day enter

Please give reason(s) for delay in regular contact ...

 

_ if number of days not known enter i9 { 9|

  

8.3 After regular contact was established, was there any period of 24 hours or more during the first
month of N's life when mother was not in normal contact with N, e.g. to hold and/or to feed?

No separation(s) of 24 hours or more ..... LOIBE wees

Mother and N out of contast foe 24 Wows OO MOE eee hens

Cannot remember

  

Not known ......... :

 

e.g. for 2% days enter _ if number of days not known enter f9[9]

Give reason(s) for separation(s) ...

   

8.4 Was N breast fed partly or wholly, even for a few days?

ves - E020

 

 

2
3 (35)
Cc

CT} sean

(38)

CT) tsec0s

 

 

  
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for less than Pmonth occ eeeeeeteees 1
for 1 month or more but less than 3 months 2
for 3 months OF MOTE oo eee eteteeteteetetttteeeefee 3 (ay
Yes but cannot remember for how 100g oo... cesecscsteceececeseeeea feces
No, was not breast fed at all oo eee ceeeteteteteteeceee fee 8
Not known oo. cos te tee cceeeeeceecceneteceter ec eeeeeeeeeenees jn. OO
8.5 At what ages did N receive immunisation, against what diseases and where?
Enter everything given for each attendance, e.g. if on first attendance given triple and polio,
ting 1, 2, 3, 4. If more than six attendances for immunisation please contiaue an back page.
Diseases immunised against Where given EO2 e
ae
-e
ye, Se
SY SY
« Lf NS SS
SOA, SIL LE
Attendance PY ~~ of oY on oO /E
SOL EY SELES oe
WES SELL SL EL SS SS SF w
First att. 4,5]/6]7f{s8tofi1!213 )0 | S€&@MY4GE 3a
Second att 4 5 6 7 8 0 i 2 3 0
Third att. 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 2 3 oO
Fourthatty..... 4 5 6 7 8 0 1 2 3 0
Fifth att. 4 5 6 7 8 oO 1 2 3 0
Sixth att. 4 5 6 7 8 9 | 2 [ 3 0

 

 

 

 

 

°Please include smalipox vaccination, although now not recommended nationally

 




Page 3a

QB1.

Birthweight in Ounces= E012A
Gestation= E012B

Method of Delivery= E012C

Number of Subsequent Children= E013
Child 2 Sex= E014A

Child 2 Month of Birth= E014B

Child 2 Year of Birth 1970-75= E014C
Child 2 Birthweight (oz)= E014D
Child 2 Gestation= E014E

Child 2 Method of Delivery= E014F
Child 2 Survival= E014G

Child 3 Sex= E015A

Child 3 Month of Birth= E015B

Child 3 Year of Birth 1970-75= E015C
Child 3 Birthweight (oz)= E015D
Child 3 Gestation= E015E

Child 3 Method of Delivery= E015F
Child 3 Survival= E015G

Child 4 Sex= EQ16A

Child 4 Month of Birth= E016B

Child 4 Year of Birth 1970-75= E016C
Child 4 Birthweight (oz)= E016D

Child 4 Gestation= E016E

Child 4 Method of Delivery= E016F
Child 4 Survival= E016G

Child 5 Sex= E017A

Child 5 Month of Birth= E017B

Child 5 Year of Birth 1970-75= E017C
Child 5 Birthweight (oz)= E017D
Child 5 Gestation= E017E

Child 5 Method of Delivery= E017F
Child 5 Survival= E017G




QB5.

Number of immunisations= E021

Age of First Whooping Cough Imm= E022A
Age of Second Whooping Cough Imm= E022B
Age of Third Whooping Cough Imm= E022C
Age of IFourth Whooping Cough Imm= E022D
Number of Diptheria Immunisations= E022E
Age of First Diptheria Imm= E022F

Age of Second Diptheria Imm= E022G

Age of Third Diptheria Imm= E022H

Age of Fourth Diptheria Imm= E022!
Number of Tetanus Immunisations= E022J
Age of First Tetanus Imm= E022K

Age of Second Tetanus Imm= E022L

Age of Third Tetanus Imm= E022M

Age of Fourth Tetanus Imm= E022N

Age of Fifth Tetanus Imm= E022P

Age of First Measles Imm= E023A

Age of Firt B.C.G. Imm= E023B

No. Polio Immunisations= E023C

Age of First Polio Imm= E023D

Age of Second Polio Imm= E023E

Age of Third Polio Ilmm= E023F

Age of Fourth Polio Imm= E023G

Age of First Smallpox imm= E023H

No. other Immunisations= E023!




6.6 Has N ever deen seen at any of the following piaces for reasons specified, and if so at what ages, if

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

known,
—

Never Seen at age: Not

- own
Ring all that apply in each row seen ‘

9 4am+ 36— | 24—]| 12—f 6— Junderjnot if ever

A 47m] 35m] 23m] 11m] Emth{kn n

t= =

 

   

{a! Home by H.V. for any reason

(b) Chitd Health Clinic tor any reason

{c) G:P. surgery or health centre for devel. screening
(d} Hospital birth follow-up ctinic

(e) Assessment Centre or clinic for handicap

 

 

 

8.7 Has N ever been separated from his/her mother or mother substitute for one month or more?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exctude N's hospital admissions and check these are detailed in 8.9.
NO oes 2 (523
Not known
€031/ E032 o
If yes, give total number of separations of one month or more, excluding N's hospital admission(s) | CT (53,5-
e.g. if 2 separations enter if number of separations not known enter
Please give details below for alt separations of one month or over. Exctude all N‘s hospital =
= admissions. Jf more than three separations, continue on Back page.
SEPARATION “-g: First Second Third
Age (years and months) E033 SA =,
EO36E- E036 E03 E036A
Reason tor separation Eos’ A ED3SE E036 6
Number of months (and
weeks} separated E0346 E035C E036 C.

 

 

Place of care of N?* E034C E035D EOSED

Was the person fooking
after N known to him/her?

 

 

Was N separated also
from father?

 

 

 

 

 

“Place of care: State if in child's own home, other’s home, institutional placement, or specify if elsewhere.
8.8 Did the mother herself, as far as she can remember, ever spend more than a short time away from her
Parents as a child? Ring all that apply

fostered/in care

 

 

other reason(s). specify 2
sees ee eeeneee ee caaecteeeeaerenee! cieee (63)
No, never spent more than a short time away from parents 3
NOt OWN oe eee ee neteeceretet eter 0
B.9 Has N ever been in hospital overnight or longer for any reason whatsoever? Exclude initial stay in
maternity home/hospital.
Ye i O88 ds
NO eee ceeeteeeeeeeseeeeteseseedh eee 2 (64)
NOt KNOWN eee heceee 0

If yes, give total number of hospital admissions overnight or longer ceeeeees ah eceee
Please give details below for every hospital admission.
If more than three admissions, continue on back page.

First Second Third

 

 

 

Age (years and months |}

 

 

Diagnosis and nature of all
special procedures, including
Operations

 

Number of nights in
Rosprtal

 

 

Name and address of
hospital! in full

 

 

Type of ward and specify
if children only admitted

Q
on

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




B.10 Has N ever attended a hospitat Outpatient department or any other
specialist clinic? .

Not known

'f yes, please give details below for each condition or illness resulting in attendance{s) at out-
Patients or specialist clinic,

Uf more than three conditions or ilinesses, continue on back page.

Fiest Second Third

 

   

 

 

 

Age at first attendance
(years and months)

 

Total number of attendances

 

Diagnosis and treatment

 

Name and address of
department, hospital or clinic,
in full,

 

 

 

 

 

B.11 Please enquire or state from your own knowledge whether N has been seen by any of the foliowing
since the fourth birthday and/or previous to fourth birthday.

 

 

 

 

i4=16

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Yes, after Yes, before No Not
Ring all that apply in each row. 4th b'day 4th b’day never known
Seen by a general practitioner* —
at surgery/health centre cnn OP....,...] 1 2 3 0
at home visit enue ore O83 nd 2 3 0
Seen by dentist—
for inspection, not therapy ........6 E034 1 2 3 0
for filtingls), extraction(s), etc. wes OP Devsesseee 1 2 3 0
Seen by doctor for routine medica! exam.
iN Aursery or school situation. specify ..&! Q 56 a eeeeed 1 2 3
Seen by speech therapist — seenecesee ee OOM crcereed 1 2 3 0
age first seen... VES. mths EQS8
Seen by child guidance clinic EOD Deenmend 1 2 3 o
age first seen. YES. mths EOGO
Problem /diagnoSis.........ecccccceececese
*For medical reasons, not for development screening or immunisation.
B.12 Has N had any of the following in the past year and/or previous to past year?
Yes, after Yes, before No . Not
Ring all that apply in each row. 4th b'day 4th b'day never known
Operations
fa) Tonsiltectomy or T’s & A‘s (06 / 1 2 3 0
(b) Adenoidectomy alone £062 1 2 3 a
(c} Circumcision E063 1 2 3 0
(d) Hernia operation E064 1 2 3 0
le) Appendicectomy E06S 1 2 3 0
(f) Any other operation, namely E066 1 2 3 QO
Medical Conditions
{g) Eczema E06? [4 2 3 0
(h) Hay fever or sneezing attacks E068 ! 1 2 3 0
(i) Ear discharge (ous not wax) E069 1 2 3 °
(j) Repeated sore throats EOD
requiring medical attention 70 | 2 3 0
(k) Habitual snoring or mouth breathing Eon 1 2 3 0
(1) Bronchitis EOF2 1 2 3 oO
(m)}Pneumonia E073 1 2 3 0
(n) Meningitis or encephalitis EOT4 1 2 3 0
(ol Hearing difficulty
{suspected or confirmed) * E07S ' 2 3 0
{p) Any vision problem (except squint) EOTE 1 2 3 0

 

 

(suspected or confirmed) *

“Uf any suspected or confirmed hearing or eyesight problem, please give details below.

 

 

 

a7)
(18)

(19)
(20)

(23)

(22)

(23)

(24)
(25)
(26)
ern
(28)

(29)

{30)
(31)
(32)
(33)
(34)
(35)
(36)
(37)

(38)

(39)

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8.13 Were there any of the fottowing difficulties with N when he/she was a baby (i.e. under 6 months of age}?
Not
Yes No known
—_———_———_______]
(a) Excessive Crying oo... ccc eee cececsnee 1 2 0 (40)
p—_
(ob) Frequent feeding problems .... 1 2 0 (41)
. _ $$]
{cl Frequent sleeping dillicutty at night 1 2 0 2)
WR (4
B.14 Has N ever had an accident requiring medical advice or treatment?
Please include accidents in the road, home and elsewhere, accidental ingestion of medicines/poisons,
burns/scalds, fractures, eye injuries, near-drowning, bad cuts and other injuries, with or without
unconsciousness, and non-accidental injuries.
Ring all that apply.
Yes — E080
accidental swallowing of medicines or poisons 7 1
Duels), SCAIGS) oe cece eects e ete cestseereectereceeees cere fe. 2
foad UWaltic accideqlsh ieee etc crt eeeeceefe 3 i
Accident resulting in unconsciousness cette eee serene ee areteteeseee eee ber cce 4
OUNCE BECOMES once ccc eee cece ee ceteeesestanen eee cteeceseee.s . 5
NO BCCI eee ecce cess eee esseeetesnsesnataresanseteeveceeesee. settee dere 6
= Not known tbe eden seetnnanenetcers seas ecensnereren case cece . . oO
If yes, please state total number of accidents specified above TT... cose ET] (45,6
e.g if 2 accidents enter
Please give details of every “accident”
Check that all “accents” resulting in hospital admission or outpatient/casualty
attendance are also included in 8.9 and 8.10 respectively. If more than four “accidents”,
continue on back page.
| Firse Second Third Fourth
Age (years and I
months) ' _
Where aid it
happen? (Road,
home, school, etc.} { '
[ we eee t
i
What happened?" |! i
be tt |
Description of “in | . ;
ae ! 1
uries” (e.g. burn!
scald, tracture,need | =
42=49 1

injury with uncun. 5
sciousness, etc )

b- we wef To,
Part{s} of body i mot
involved (head i as

eves, lambs. ete.)

 

 

Where treated (GP.
Casualty, fnpanedil ¢

 

Treatrnenst, inchug
ing stutches, oper.
tion(s), plaster cast(s)
traction, etc.

 

Name and address
of hospital ia full,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if attended ur
admitted
“If ingestion of medicines/poisons, give name of substance.
B.15 Has N ever had one or more attacks of bouts in which he/she had Ves... E08 ceeeeeeeees ;
wheezing on the chest, regardless of the cause? NO ooo | L 2 (54)
Not known ooo. u
Hf yes, please complete the following details.
ta} Age at fizst or only attack in which he/she wheezed on the chest: weeeee  WOOES £088 mths Sexy
(b) How many attacks occurred:
58.5
{a} in first 12 months of life? Pm . WE OB FD sects eee cece eeceteeeeeeeceeneee deers CL) ‘

 

{b) between first and fourth birthdays? We OVO a

{c} since fourth birthday? FOU : (62.6

CL} was

 

EO
(ec) Number of times ever admitted to hospital with any wheezing in the chest whatever the cause —7"|......-
{d) Please describe what the mother was told about the diagnosis in her own words £093

Check whether there have been any hospital admission{s} or out-patient attendance(s) for the
above, if so, make sure they are included in B.9 and 8.10 respectively.

 




B.16 Has N ever had any form of convulsion, fit, seizure or other turn in which consciousness was fost,
Or any part of the body made abnormal movements?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

If yes,
(a) from health visitor's and mother's knowledge, and from records if possible, please
give the most accurate diagnosis of une attack (s}.
Ring all that apply
Epilepsy 0... .
Febrile convulsion(s} ..
Fainting, blackOuUsh oo... eececeeteceeee drone
Other diagnosis, namely oo... eee cccsedeeee
(ob) please ask mother to describe the first attack
Ch) FOC IT LOOK oes eceseceenescaseseseseusssenseneseaeca sees _ .
- “til how soon seen by G.P., or admitted, if at all seseseeeseesetsneesDcesteseseveteveneeatenses
{c) please ask mother to describe subsequent atteck(s), if any.
fi) form they took if different from above seecteteesaseeeecsssescteseeteacescoge se nsacaesessoee
(ii) investigations, if BOY oo... eee ccescecsesssseccscesesseseceesecsseee sececsesecseeneseseceneceeere
(iii) medication and dates oo... cccceseesesecs sees cose ce eeceteteseeees eee ceneseneeeceecenes ene
{d) give number of convulsions, fits or seizures in each agegroup specitied below.
First four 1-12 Over lyr Over 2 Over 3 Over 4
weeks months under 2 under 3 under 4 years
Number of
attacks

 

 

 

 

 

 

Check whether there have been any hospital admission(s) or outpatient attendance(s}
for the above, if so, make sure they ace included in B.9and B 10 respectively.

8.17 Has N ever worn or been Prescribed glasses?

Elol

still has to wear them ooo.

Yes —

but does not have to wear them now |.....

 

 

8.18 ‘ias N ever had a squint?

E102
DOWN none cee ce cecece ccc cneresecseeseceeneseeeeee
in past but NEL MOW old

No, never ...
Not known

 

If yes, what treatment was given?
Ring all that apply

Medical advice — “‘No treatment needed”
Patch over one eye ..

 

 

 

Glasses ....

 

 

Eye exercises .

 

Operation .. wae cseeenes
Treatment advised, but not known what
Never attended for advice or treatment .

NOt OWA oa ccceeceseccsecssessssssssstecaveceestucsecestecseere

E104.

B.19 Has N ever hada stammer or stutter of any other difficulty with speech?

 

   

 

Stammer or Other speech
stutter difficulty
Yes, at presant—
mild .. 1 1
severe 2 2
Yes, in past bur not now 3 3
NO occ cssceececsseeeseseseencesansneceeseees 4 4
Not known oes eeee 0 0

 

 

 

 

 

If ever difficulty in speech, other than stammer or stutter, give details

cE lOS”

 

   

on

2wn —

 

 

{67)

 

 

 

 

 

 

2

Oekwn =

ne)

°o

(76)

a7)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




B.20 Do People outside N’s household easily understand what he/she says?
46 N's main language not Eaglish, ring 1.

 

N's main language not English
All or nearty all of N's speech is understood outside immediate family... pe
Some of N’s speech understood outside immediate Family oo... eect ee ceettetceeeceseee cece hese
Hardly any of N's speech understood outside immediate family o..eesesseeee cere e cee eseeey wee ayy
N's speech understuod only by immediate lamity..... Sete ereeeenentenaeeeeatseteeratteceetceeceseapecss
Even immediate family have difficulty in understanding N's speech... vee
Other answer, Mamely .....c.eeccceescsssneeeeess sss csuscssseessecsecesvasecstesesevsaveneneeaueeres fetta
Not known if others understand Noo. cc ccccecceceee teteeeeceeteeereteseestceseneeeceeeteseeee sed we

ON ANB WN HE

B.21) From the heaith visitor's knowledge, observation and from records, has N ever been diagnosed as
having any congenital abnormality or suspected congenital abnormality?
Ring alt that apply
Yes —
Mongot oo.
Spina bifida (meningomyetocele) .
Hydrocephalus...
ABO HD ec cc ccc ccc ceeees
~ Clett palate oo
Congenital heart condition (diagnosed)
Suspected congenital heart condition(murmur, etc.)

 
 
 
   

 

Skin naevus (portwine, strawberry, etc.) .

ODN OD BW

Any other congenital abnormality, specify

 

   

No, none of the above oo le ccccecececececesees

U yes. please describe abnormatizies

 

B.22. From the health visitor's knowledge and observations, and where necessary from available records,
does N have any physical or mental disability or handicap, or any other condition interfering with
normal everyday Ife or which might be a problem at school?

Yes -
but no reat handicap |...
mild handicap oo... cose oe
severe handicap ...0.0..00000....
No disabitity or handicap .........

OR WN

NOt KNOWA Loo cee eee c eee eres
Uf yes, {a) please give foltowing details

Actual diagnosis oo. w..

 

Effect on home or school life, if ANY... ee st seeenenaceeseneseesassseeceres seas aeees

 

(bl indicate into which of the fotlowing Categories the condition, handicap or
disability falls
Ring al! that apply

Visrl DOO CE ec ee ccc ce ccseeecentatsecectescecseseeteatsertareestssveveeh cocee
Hearing Debt occ cece cssssesesssseee ce seeeseseseasstuesesceceseseece
Speech defect: o...cee
Mentat handicap of Msability oe cece cccccesvasece ceed cece
Emotional proolere ooo ccccceecceceecsecstreseescessvarseseeeccccesceceaf coe.
Motor/locomotor problem

 

   

Respiratory problem
Severe Congenital CONDWION ooo cc cecccccccceseeeeee
Severe acquired condition (e.g. malignancy) .....
Other condition, specify...

SOU MAN AN AWH

8.23 Has N’s natural mother or natural father or any brothers or sisters of N’s ever had any of the following?

Natural Naturat
Ring all that apply in each column — mother father

Sibling(s}

  

Asthma
Hay tever..

   
  

 

Eczema
Late reader.
Poor reader or non-reader at present

  

@. not reading by 7 years

Convulsion(s) o¢ Fitts)... we
Bedwetting. after 5 years of age
Late in learning to speak oo... eee
None of ab0ve oon. eee cee tee eee eit ee erecta
No sibliags 2000 eee

OeEYA nN eww

cb

 

 

 
 

 




SECTION C TELEVISION VIEWING AND READING

ca Does N ever watch television at home?
Yes -

almost every day .....

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

occasionally... (29)
NO, OVO cc ccceeesescneesesentenenes
NOt OWN one cceces tee ceceeeeseeeeanens
it N never watches TV proceed to C.6
C.2 Complete the following details of N's television viewing at home in the past seven days, by ringing ali :
appropriate numbers for each day. Start with yesterday and go back day by day through the week, ‘
- T =
Ring all that apply for each day. Mon| Tue | Wed} Thur} Fri Sat j Sun
FF
Morning (e.g. before 1 pm) 1 1 1 1 t ' 1 :
Early afternoon (e.g. 1 pM—4 pM) o.oo 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 =
> ——.
Late afternoon (e.g. 4 PM—6 PM) o.oo coeccceoee 3 3 2 3 3 3 3 ‘
Ee IY EIT6 ;
Early evening (e.g. 6 pm—9 pm) .... 4 4]24 4 4 4 4 sea
Late evening (e.g. after 9 pm) oo 5 Ss 5 5 5 5 s
Did not watch TV that day o.oo ccccccsccseese 6 6 6 6 6 6 6
Not known oo cecceseece . 0 oO 0 0 0 0 0
AV HOURS WATCHED TY Mon~ FRI EIF
“ . “e « SAT-SUN:
C.3 Give coral number of hours N warched each NEMS
day in the past seven days .
Mon! Tue | Wed! Thur! Fri | Sar sun |
Enter hours watched | =

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Enter O for any day on which N watched TV under ! hour or not at all. {f nat known on
any day, enter NK

's this the usual amount of TV N watches? VES eee cee ceeeeee
Not known ooo

tf no, how many hours a day on average does he/she usually watch TV?

If fess than 1 hour a day enter {0]

C.4 What types of TV Programmes does N watch at home?
Ring ali that apply.

Children's programmes fe.g. Playschool, Sesame Street, etc.)
CAMLOONS one cccessseceesseeesessttesesseccesesesuitesessssausessssecesssse seeteteeeeeeenceee
Thrilter/dramatic Programmes (e.g. cowboy, gangster, science fiction, war films, etc.) .
Comedy programmes/series settee eraneenereeeconesaseseasesescusesceetaecsessercetssevereseterecazeee
Competition/quiz Programmes (e.g. Double Your Money, Goiden Shot, ete.d ee
SPOTL oe eecceccsseceeccotecsenseeecsessecsmeseresevareramessasene

News programmes ooo. ccccccccececcee eee ene

 

Documentary programmes {e.g animal, travel films, etc.)
Other types of programmes, please give details

 

 

C5 Which is N’s favourite TV Programme?

Specify title or series N tikes best ceeseeeene

 

G6 Ring in column A ali who have read to N at home at least once in the Past 7 days. E12 9 EIl30

Ring in cotumn B the one person who reads to N most otten

>

 
  
   
 
 
 

a fee 2 (51)

 

 

 

2s — 2D

 

 

 

OMDVY AM BWA

 

 

 

 

Mother ... an emaseseneecne
Father......
Other adults, specify
Child(ren} 11 and over... aneeas ereevee sen ees
Child(ren) under 11...
Nobody read to child
Not known owe cee

    
 
   

OMMawn m=

 

ONW awn =

C  SA—at

 

 

 

 

C7 On how many days has N been read to at home in the past 7 days? =>

 

a L.. [|] (6)

(62)

. | ] (63)

ON =

 




 

 

   

    

 

   

 

 

 

 

SECTIOND NURSERY, PLAYGROUP AND SCHOOL EXPERIENCE
OT A Ring in the first column A any school, playgroup, or nursery placements N attends at the
Present (or attended last term if at present on holiday).
If currently attending more than one, ring all he/she attends in column A.
8. Ring in the second column, B all other placements attended Previously for three months or
longer, that he/she has since stopped attending. Ring all that apply in both columns
A 8
Present Previous
placement(s} placement(s)
Nursery school—
Local Education Authority (free) 1 1 El4s
Private (fee charged) .................. 2 2 Elgg
Nursery class attached to intant/primary school—
Local Education Authority (Ch ccccsceeeeseee FASS, 3 3 EI4t
Private (fee ChArQeD) 2... .ceccccsceeeccccsccssssssssssveseeceeeee EIS 4 4 EIG?
Normat school, full of part-time—
Iafant/primary school (L.E.A) oo cccscccceececeececee E137. 5 5 EI44
Independen/private oo... cece seeseececesececccsececed E 138 6 6 EISd
Playgroup osc. aaat see E37. 7 7 Eisi
Special day school, aursery or unit for physically or mentally
handicapped children ... ! 8 8 E1S2
Day nursery—
Local Authority... ccecccssssssssesssscsseresecssseeecce 9 9 EIs3
PHVALE occ sccscscsseccessscncusesssscesesesasatietseneseee 10 10 EtSt
Creche, kindergarten... W VW EISS
Mather and toddler ClUD. ee cccececeseecesteeseseeacescese LEE 12 12 EIS&
Sunday SCHOO ooo eee ee ces sa ceescsecessusucasacanenececescusevansvsscecececeesce 13 3
Other placement, please specify 14 14
Atlends/attended none of these . 1g 1S
NOt KNOWA oct cceeereveueseraees 0
if child has attended none of the above in the Past OF at the present proceed to 0.10,

 

'f child is attending, of has attended any of the above. please complete D.2 onwards.
Vo nat gwe further details of “mother and toddler club” or Sunday school.

0.2 Present placement - A EISF

Name and address in full of the place N attends at Present or, if on holiday, attended last term. (If
child currently attends more than one piace, please give details of the main one).

Designation of main place N attends now, i.e. as specified in D.1 A. oe

 

Name of place N attends now...

Full postat address 0...

Name of head teacher, supervisor, etc.

 

0.3 Previous placement — B EIS&

Name and address in full of place N has attended Previously that he/she has since stopped attending.

{If the chitd has attended more than one place previously for three months or longer give detaits of
the one he/she left most recently).

 

 

 

Designation of previous place N attended, i.e. as specified 19 0.1 Boece ccessceecenescere a osseeveesge. aeeveasee 26,11

 

Name of previous place N attended...

Full postal address o.oo cececceee

 

 

Name of head teacher, supervisor, C00. ooo aesccsscsssseseconssuvssuvussesasssuvitesessesssestatisectsseessetecescesee

 

The following questions 0.4 to 0.8 retler to: A- the present placement and B— the previous
placement as identified above.

 

 

   

 

 

0.4 Type of premises N attended for present and Previous placements EISG El ——,
-160 i
A 8 |
Present Previous
placement placement
Nocmat schuol uf oursery POEMSES oe weeeeees weeeeeeeaes 1
Village of community halt _., 2 2 [= .--
Church hall 3 3
Private house 4 4
Nursery in factory /industrat premises 5 5 j
Other kind of premises, picase specily .... 6 6
— : 07
NOt KNOWN oc eee eee tetete ca aeaneceees cue ea anes cesaaecnes oO . QO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

0.5 (a) At what age did N start attending:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

years months
L_9=)) "1
A- Present placement? E16 /
B- Previous placement? E162 | |
{b) At what age did N stop attending the previous placement? —
E163
{c) —_
cee teee ce ecece sce ceaeeeseaesasatesstacenseseaeee

 

 

 

0.6 — Days and periods of N’s attendance

 

Ring the appropriate numbers under each day of the week to show whether N attended in the
morning, afternoon or both. Enter in the last column the average length of a morning or afternoon
Session in hours.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hours attended
Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun per session
—2422__]}
ELEY incening tt=2{/ 3] 4] 5] 61 7 (E(6S ns =
A-— Present ptscement
EIéé Afternoon} 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1E16.% nes |
— 28-3)
El€S | morning 1) 21 37 af s] 6] 7 |ElED ns
B ~ Previous pi ut
El#o Afternoon 1 2 3 4 5 6 7? | ElF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0.7 Has the mother noticed any changes in N felt to be due to his/her attendance at present or previous

placements? EIt2 EIF3
A B

Present Previous
placement placement

 

 

 

Yes, change noticed ooo ee 1
No, 90 change ooo ceee cee ceecceees. 2
Not attended Jong enough to say oo... 3
Cannot say ........ 4
Not kmowe i cecceteeeceee i

 

'f yes, what kind of changes have you noticed? /f only one or two are mentioned. ask, ‘are
there any other changes in him/her you have noticed?’

|

A — Present placement

 

 

 

B ~ Previous placement

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

ciceceeeee (40.41 |
0.8 Has mother regularly taken Part or helped in any way in the place(s) N attended? (e.g. looking after
the children, helping with the administrative side Or in other ways) EIF g EIFF
A 8B
Present Previous
placement placement
Yes—
at least ONC] a WEEK ec ccccsccscseceesesssenssessesseesees 1 1
1-3 times a month .... 2 2
once or twice a term 3 3
fess than once a term ooo ccc ce cceseeeeee we 4 4
No- I
Mother's hetp was not FOQUICED Looe cess Ss 5 =
mother was busy doing other ONINQS 20 ce eee 6 6
mother preferred not to take part ? 7
Child not attended tong enough to say 8 8
Other cepty. please give details 0... 9g 9
Not known . wee beeeeeeees wee cette teen oO oO

 

 

 

If mother has taken Part, please describe what it was she did.

'f only one or two things mentioned, ask ‘were there any other things you did?’

A ~- Present placement wee E180. ron

 

B - Previous placement cesses Be

A)

 




0.9 Have N’s mother and/or father met the head teacher, supervisor or other staff from the present
placement either before or since N started? (e.g. to discuss his/her settling down, N‘s school entry or
anything else concerning N)

 

 

 

  

 
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ring all that apply in each column
Before N started| Since N started
Mother | Father | Mother | Father
Yes, met staff to discuss N- EIS 2A | E1828) E182.C | E182
at school, playgroup, Cte. oo occ ceecceeecee 1 ' 1 1
at parents’ home. 2 2 2 2
elsewhere oc ccecuenecseeecetveteeseenses 3 3 3 3
No, never met staff 4 4 4 4
No mother figure/no father figure . 5 5 5 5
N has no present placement 6 6 6 6
NOUR MOWN occ eee tect ee teeeeeceeeee : 0 0 Oo Oo
If yes, who initiated the meeting(s)? Ring all that apply
Parents wees coe ees EIB ZE
Statf coc ee ee eeeeee ee ceeeeeeee
Other reply. give detads on we
Cannot say ..........

 

0.10 I Nis not at present attending intanU/primary school (LEA or private} please give name and address of
the school mother expects him/her to attend later,
if mother does not know which infant/primary school N is to attend, put NOT KNOWN.

 

(a) Name of sntant/primary school .............. bee eteceteeee

Full postal address _.,

 

 

Name of head teacher...

(ob) When does the mother expect N to start attending this infant/primary school?
Summer term 1975... EI83A |

Autumn term (September) 1975
Other date, please specity ........

Cannot say Be eee teteeee cn

D.11 trrespective of whether or not N attended, did the mother ever have his/her name down ona waiting
list to go to a playgroup, nursery school or class, or day nursery?
Ring all that appl
Yes— g al! thet apply
had name down on at least one warting list tor E836
nursery school/class of playgroup 00 oe

had name down on waiting list for day nursery

   

No, narne has never been on a waiting Irst

Cannot remember oo.

 

U.12 Has N ever been regularly looked after during the day in someone etse’s house, for three months or

longer? (For this purpose “regularly” is taken as two or more hours weekly}
Ring all that apply

Yes—
by a friend of neighbour 0... EIB 4 wets
by paid child minder . EI8S

 
 

by relatwe ...
by other person, please specify

  

No, never

 

Not known...

If yes, give age in completed years N was first regularly looked after in someone else's house coe E188. ef

« ff age not known enter 9]

 

Hf under one, enter [o], if 3% years enter

 

 

 

IBS

 

 

 

—

(50)

 

 

 

 

0
q
(52)
Oo
1
2
(53)
3
0
1
2 —_—_
3
4
5

| {S6)

 

 




SECTIONE EDUCATION AND OCCUPATION OF PARENTS

E.t Educational or occupational qualifications of present parents Ring all that apply in both columas
Mother Father

Qualifications in shorthand and/or typing. trade apprenticeships, or other
vocational training, e.g. State Enrolled Nurse (SEN) or Enraltied Nurse
(Scotland), hairdressing diptoma, etc. cet ceeneeeeteee ceenee rea seuasseeeaeeeransecececseecuce
G.C.E. °O" level, S.C.E. ‘O° grade. Certificate of Secondary Education
(CSE), City and Guilds intermediate Technical Certificate, City and Guilds
Finat Craft Certificate seveetececesetesaceeces

G.C.E. ‘A’ level, High School Certificate (HSC), Higher Grade of Scottish
Leaving Certificate (SLC), Ordinary Nationat Diptoma/Certificate (OND,
ONC), City and Guilds Final Technical Certificate, Higher Grade of
Scottish Certificate of Education (SEED one eee ce cee cece teveetatetasesescee
State Registered Nurse (SRN) or Registered Nurse (Scotland) 0.0...

Certificate of Education (Teachers), Teaching Qualification (Primary/
Secondary Education in Scotland) ._.. cette ee seen eeeaecsees se eececeeeeaeceteteneeeee cece
Degree {e.g. BSc. BA, PND), Higher National Diploma/Certificaie (HNO.
HNC), Membership of Professional Institution (e.g. FCA, FRICS, MiMechE,
MIEE. etc.) City and Guilds Full Technical Certificate oe cceeeceeee

 

Other qualifications, Please specify ...

 

  

No qualifications

  

Not applicable, no mother or no father FiQUee oe ce ceresceensevaneeceseee

Qualifications not known oo feet teen ate eee teecne eeeenerteeeeseeeeues

HIGHEST KNOWN QUALIFICATION OF PARENTS : E196
E.2)) Atwhart age did the present parents leave «choot?

{a} Age mother left schoo! EIU cee VOSS

(b) Age father feft school EUI2. years

£.3. How many completed vears of full-time education did the present parents nave after leaving schoot?
(e.g. at College of education, at Polytechnic, at university, etc.) 1f none, put NONE

{a} Mother, number of vearsEl 93 EI? years
{b} Father, number of years EIF 4, EU%E vears

E.4 Occupation of present father E 197
€.4 to E.6 refer to the father or father subsvtute, including foster father, adoptive father, stepfather
or any other father substitute.
1 N has no father or substitute father now, please ring 8 in E.4 and proceed to E.8.
(a) What is the father’s actual job, occupation, trade or Profession, or the last occupation if

unemployed or retired? Full and precise details of Occupation are required. See “Survey
Notes and Information”.

Actual jOd cece se cesea ees

 

(b) What is the industry or business in which the father is engaged? Give details of goods, materials
or services. See “Survey Notes and Information “

 

Tye Of industey occ cccecccssesse cesseseseeseeee. settee ctaeeeteeneeecssecarsetessteneesneeraere

(c) Father's employment status
Setf-Emptoyed
With 25 or more employees
With less than 25 employees ...... :

 

 

 

Without employees other than family workers of.

Employed
In managerial position seeeeeeeees
As toreman, supervisor, chargehand. etc. _..
Not in supervisory role...

Other
Unemployed, sick, etc.
Please describe situation .

 

No father figure

 

 

 

Ls

 




E.5 Oo any of the following apply?

 

 

Never or :

hardly ever Sometimes Often Not known
E198 (a) Father away evenings until after N has
GONE 10 DED 0... eee ceeeeecraseenereeae eee eee .
EIN {b) Father away most of Saturday and/or
Sunday . ”
E2oo (c) Father works away for long periods (i.e.
amonth of more at a time)...... teecesetneesee
E201 (d] Father works OverNight .......ccesscseseceeeesee
E202  (e) Father works shifts aseeececesececessaecaetecneeees

 

€6 For how many weeks has the father been off work in the past 12 months, through illness or unemptoy-
ment or for other reasons?

e.g. if off work 9% weeks enter Mf never off work enter if not known enter

Number of weeks off work through: (a) Ulness of accident E203A

 

{b) Unemptoyment |. 2...

{c) Other reasons, give details oe ceeseececccsecceeccee.

 

€.7 When the present father left school, what was his own father’s job?
See “Survey Notes and Information”. If occupation not known put NOT KNOWN,

fa) Actual job E2044

 

{bo} Type of industry oo cece ceccenececseces

 

E.8 When the present mother left school, what was her own father’s job?
See “Survey Notes and information”. tf occupation not known put NOT KNOWN.

(a) Actual job ..... e204 B | wee e eee cece ceeeecssaeecetaeaseseugeeeesseeese

(bo) Type of industry

 

€.9 Does present mother have a job, either out of the home or at home, or is she a full-time housewife?

Mother works oul of ine home — E20S
regularty full ume of part-time employment including evenings, overnight or weekends .._ woop

occasionally casual or treelance worker obtaining work on a day-to-day basis or
seusona'ty 2.9. Feutt Picking, C1 ceeecceceeevescsseeseescseee

 

Mother works wi furne

reguiarty ftenity business, e.g. shop. farm. boarding house. clerical work tor a setf.
employed Nusvond. home industry Le. working fora firm of manufacturers at home, etc. ...... oe

Occasionally sessonal work done at home.e.g. holiday bed and breakfast business ...

 

Fulleume huousewi'e, 90 OlNeF KING OF WOKK ooo. coc cececceseseceeeeesceecee es

Other work situation, please give details oo coe coceccsececececesecee cote peeaeesnegeaeeeeeesecses

Not kncwa.,

     

if mother works regularly at home or out af the home fi.e. ringed 1 or 3 in E.9) at the present time,
please complete E10 onwards.

df mother is now a full-time housewife or only works occasionally, lie ringed 2, 4 of § in E.9)
please proceed to E.17 on next page.
E.10 Describe mother’s present job. See “Survey Notes and Information”. E20 b

What 1s her actual ob? (e.g. shop assistant, teacher, assembly line worker, typist, stitcher, etc.)

 

{b) What type of industry or business does she work in? fe g. greengrocery, infant school, tobacco,
insurance, glovemaking, etc.)

 

(c} What kind of position does mother occupy at Work?
Managertal
As forewoman or supervisor. etc
Non-supervisory position...
Works st home... .

Other, please specity

 

Cannot sayfaat kagwn, ..

 

(d) How many years has mother been doing this job? {Ignore short breaks for Pregnancies or illness}

114% years enter (o[4]. Mf under one year enter . if not kaown enter

Number of years 2OF..

 

 

 

 

 

(3)
(10)

Q))
a2)
a3)

LT) a4aas
LT aes

(18,16

a

(22)

n> Ww

23

(24)

awn

°

 




E.11 Please show in the table below the times (giving a.m. or p.m.) the mother started and finished work
and the total hours worked each day last week. If not working last week, give details of the last week

 

 

 

 

 

worked. _—
Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri | Sat | Suna
Time started DAYS MOTHER! WORKED PREVIOUS | WEEK{ E207A
Time finished E2096
Total hours worked*

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*taclude meal breaks 48 part of the we. aing period. Eater 0 tor any day not worked.
HOURS MOTHER WORKED IN PREVIOUS WEEK: E208
E.12 Does mother work these hours reaularly every week?

F210

Yes, every week the same

 

No, mother works a shift system

 

No sel pattern of work, hours of days worked vary

Other repty, please give details .

 

Cannot say oc cee eee
€.13 Please give average travelling time to and from work

~ {ah travelling to work

 

{o)} returning home
tf works at home put AT HOME

E.14 When mother is at work, is N usually looked after at home or away from home? (If N is sometimes
looked after at home and sometimes away from home ring where he/she is mainly looked after).

EZN

Looked after at home

 

 

 

 

. mins EZIOA
a mins E2/08

 

 

 

 

 

(42)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 
 

 

Looked after away tram home 2 (44)
Vanes. 3
CaNOO SAY ie ccc cee cece tecccetee coeeseee csapveuevene 0
E.1S Who looks after N during mother’s working hours? Ring aff that apply
N's father oo. : ER!2, E213. a 1
Mother at home ooo... odes 2
Accompanies Mother to work { 3
Adult relative €.g grandparents, aunt, e1c ote 4 —
Order sibling ... . S
Bd CMADMANEE ee ef cteeee 6 45=4K
Friend or neighbour (not pad! a. 7
Lal autharity day nursery een : le 8
Day nursery run by an employer or orivate indwidual(st .. ....... 3g
School. aursery school or class. or playgroup 10
Same other person or place, namely oo. ooo ee cceeceece ceececefeveceeee WwW
Nat know oc te ce feeeeceee 0
If more than one, who mainty looks afters N during mother’s working hours?
BRK "a
£16 Please ask the mother if she could say what are the main reasons she works. (If “for money” ask,
“what is money mainly spent on?’’} Ring all that apply -
Financial necessity (e.g. contribution to housekeeping or cent, clothes, etc.) vowel ZIE wee 1
Financia! advantage (e.g. savings, holidays, nousehold appliances, luxuries. car,
to gain independence, etc.) 2
Sociat reasuns (e.g for company, making friends, retiet of boredom, keep you young, etc.) 3 21.92
Career/enjoys the WOrk ........cescesessssecssscssonessnecssssesessucecsecusescensnsasercasenstsussece seuvesecesesesducs sueeseee 4
Other reasons, describe. 5
\f more than one reason given, ask, “which of these is the most important reason", and write in
€.17 Has mother had a regular full-time or part-time job out of the home since the time of N's birth which
she subsequently gave up? Ring all that apply
Yes —
full-time jobls}.. . 1
part-time job{s}. - 2
No, never had a job out of the home since N’s birth... 3
Other reply. give details. cceecceccecsstsecrsscetecessevsefececeese 4
— NOL KNOWN. ere agen 0
REGULAR JOB SINSE CHILD'S B1eTH ? EZIEA
'f yes, give total time worked since N’s birth in completed years (exclude present job if any) Teer d ban seeese C) (55)

E2166

if worked under one year enter (o}

 

 




 

SECTION F THE HOME AND SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT

 
     
     
 
 
    
 
 
  

Fi What accommodation is occupied by this household?
Whole detsched house or Bungalow .....cece.
Whole semi-detached house or bungalow oo.
Whole terrace house (including end of terrace}
Flat/maisonette (self-contained) ......

Rooms (non self-contained flat) ...
Other, please give Getails oo...

 

 

If Flat or Rooms, give the lowest floor on which rooms are Situated

1f on ground floor or basement, enter

  

  

 

 

 

 

F.2 Is the accommodation Owned or rented by the household?
Owned outright... E220 sr etemeeeseebes, }
Being bought......... Trteteseteasenssateesescvataetenesearsansentsenseseesasesseneecses node 2
_ Rented from Council teceeneeseeneneones steeteetenneeed in, 3 7.
“= Privately rented — unfurnished .......... tomeeegi. g 659)
Privately rented — furnished or Partly furnished . 5
Tied to occupation of tather Hise eates caseneetersceceeeseecesee . 6
Other situation, please give details... ccececsec., . (7
F.3 Does the household have sote use of, share with another household, or lack any of the following
amenities?
Sole use Shared use aieble
E221 (a) Bathroom .. (60)
E222 (do) Indoor lavatory . (61)
E223 {cl Outdoor tavoratory.... (62)
E224 (3) Hot water supoly........ (63)
E228 le} Garden or yard... (6a)
E226 Kitchen estate eet eeeaes caus (65)
F.4 How large is the kitchen and is it used for living in (e.g. for having meals in}?
Less than 6 feet wide —
Not used for living in .... . 1
Used for living in oo... 2
6 feet or more wide ~
Not used tor living ia oo, oy . (66)
Used tor tiving in aettcetaeesensececeeee
No kitchen... at eeeeteeteeeeetseeesecee
Not known

 

 

 

F.S How many rooms are there within the accommodation? (Include all rooms except kitchen, bathroom,

toilet, and any rooms used solely for business Purposes. For complete definition see “Survey Notes
and Information}

(67.68)
PERSONS PER Room RATIO: £92486
F.6 Does N share a bedroom with others?

If yes, how many steep in the same room were FEA8D (70)

 

F.7 Does N share a bed with others?

No. E228E

 

   

  

Yes —
with one other . 0 2
with two others - 3 UN
with more than two others - 4
NOUR QOWA oe cece seeesceeseeee 0 ——

F.8 Which of the following does the famity have?

Ring all that apply

   
  
  
  
 
  

Refrigerator ,
Washing machine
Spin aryer......... oeaeee,
Colour T.v,
Black and White TLV. occ scesseee
Van or car

 

 

Telephone
None of the above .

 

Sn Ane WH

 




F.9 Inthe Past seven days has anyone helped mother at all with any of the following? {Include father,
bers of the household, friends, neighbours, relatives and paid help).

Ring all that apply in each row fener aia om

(a) Housework/shopping .... E23 -
{b) Looking after N for part of the day while mother hore 224
8

 

 

| 2

 

attends appointments, does housework, etc.

  

(ch Babysitting in the evening ........--.so-e---
(d) Putting N to bed seveensesecsesesadesmercennesnsssenensennenrnnesl

E2¥%0

(e) Taking N to school/nursery/play group, etc. .....00..E LO,

 

F.10 in the past 7 days has N done any of the following with others or by him/herself:

  

. - Yes with Yes with Yes Not
Ring all that apply in each row. adult(s) child(ren) by self No known
{a} been to a friend's or relative’s house ee EZ HI 1 2 3
(b} been to a park, recreation ground,
adventure playground. ER #2. 3
fe) been on a bus oF train ... 6g

  

{d) been to the shops, launderette, etc. 3 4

 

F.11 Indicate to which of the following broad ethnic categories N and the present parents bel: .
= e2 E2ter £2466
N Mother Father

ETHAN IC GROUP OF European (U.K).
European (other}...........

PAR ENTE 1 E2uF West indian ....
Indian/Pakistan

Other Asian.

African .....

Other, specify 0... eee

 

 

 

 

Not Known we

 

F112 What language is mainly used with N in the home?
English oo...
Other language, namely .

 

NOU KNOWN on cceceesencee cece cee eesesseeescsencesssessssieaee waveatons

F.13 How many times has N moved since birth?
if ae Moves enter . ¢f not known enter

Number of moves =

EQHF

 

F.14 Has N ever been in any of the following situations?

   
  
    

 

 

 

 

 
  

(9)

a0)
qa)
(12)
(13)

a4)

as)
16)
a7)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ring all that apply in both columns Now a the past
“in care” (voluntary or statutory) in —
fostemparents’ HOME «2... sesscescecesssnescesceneesneesee E2S( 1 1
ASSESSMENE CONTE ora .snercorceescoreccenecsssrereeceseneeter 2 2
3 3
Children's HOME... ccssssceensocene cas neecenescee cee ee Occ csnsane 4 4
fo Part HN accommodation oo. ecesscccsoneceeene nee oevevecenenste Tederseeveesersean 5 5
In homeless family unit secemesesecesatesssenseatensessssentgevestn GOD Doraresssece 6 6
None or tne aoove 7 7 :
Not known if any of above ..... ateseneettencreccensscesarscscesecssen cee. woseee Oo Q WA=Zy
*For each “in care” situation please give the following details:
. Age when
centre etcei'tnown | Velen Socue’ | test antered | $29 | Reason W incare
F.15 From your knowledge and anything you have learned from the interview, has anyone in the household
since N’s birth had contact with any statutory or voluntary social work or welfare organisations?
(For example, Social Services or Social Security Departments, Probation Service, etc.)
q
2 (28)
0

 

If yes, give details we

 

 

 




 

SECTION G FAMILY HEALTH AND SMOKING

G.1 Has anyone in N‘s household since N's birth had any severe or prolonged illness (medical, surgical or

©

psychiatric) of any handicap or disability? Ring all that apply .

  
  

Child in household (excluding Nb.
No, none

'f yes, please give the following details for each member of the household concerned.

 

 

| Relationship 10 N

Otagnosis or nature of
condition

Date of onset

 

 

   
   
  
 

 

 

 

 

Ouration of condition
years and months}

 

Outcome (i.e. recovered, died,
CONAitiON still present)

In what way, if any, has condition
caused any interference with N's E287
everyday care?

 

 

 

 

 

 

G.2 {al Do either N’s mother or father smnoke ar all at present?
(Cigarette smoking is defined as smoking an average of one or more cigarettes a day)

 

 

 

 

E2S& €859
Ring ail that apply in both columas Mother Father
No, is non-smoker ooo ecco. 1 1
Yes —
smokes cigarettes........., 2 2
smokes pipe or cigars... 3 3
Not known if smokes... 0 0

if smokes cigarettes, how Many are smoked per day on average?

if nat known how many, enter (13) Average number smoked: Mother =—_ E260 | |
° . G3:

fmm ast |
‘ (35.3

{b) Irrespective of whether or not N's mother or father smoke at present, for how many years since
N's birth have they smoked Cegarettes, if at afl? E262 E263

Mother Father

During the period since N's birth — -
Smoked all the time ttteteseesteaeseceescseeeeee
Smoked for more than 3 years steteseeseeceoes
Smoked for between 1 and 3 years ow.
Smoked for less than 1 year saneaeseessescccecse
Smoked but nox know for how tong...
Nomsmoker ail the time .
Not known if smoked at alt

   

 

 

  

From interviewec’s and mother's knowledge or any other source, has N ever Previously hag any special test(s)
of progress in connection with a fotlowup of the British Births Survey or any other study of child

 
 
 

 

  
 

 

 

   

 

development?

2

Not known ssrrotssetesseeeree seen dameece, 0

If yes, please complete details below.
_ Agets) of N Name of study, if known Where tested and

Relationship of informant to N Mother aseeeseafeee 1
Father 2 (40)

3

Please thank the mother for her help in this confidential enquiry. When doing so, please mertion
that the study will be continued in the Nurseries, playgroups, hospitals and other places already
attended by the children taking part. We will also record the results of screening tests and
medical examinations undergone by the children to complement the information that the
mother has so kindly given.

ff there are any further points the mother would care to add concerning N or the. survey, we
would be grateful if these could be noted on the back Page.

END OF INTERVIEW |
|




SECTIONH TOBE COMPLETED AFTER THE INTERV EW IS OVER

Please complete H.1 to H.5 from your knowledge and any impression you have gained during
the interview.

H.1t Please ring the descriptions which you feet best characterise the home and relationship of family
with neighbours.

{a) Furnituce/equipment in {b) Tidiness of home (c) Relationship of family

home E26 4 E26 Ss with neighbours E266
Luxurious... Over-tidy 0d Very good terms... 1
Well equipped ........ we 2 Very tidy eee Good terms... 2
Adequate ......... co. 3 Average... 3 Satisfactory... .... 3
Low standard... 4 Ualidy na 4 Donitmix 4
Very low standard .......5 Chaouc 5 Bad terms 5
Can't assess «see. Can't assess... O Can't assess. 0

 

H.2 In order to get some impression of the kind of district N fives in, please ring which one of the
following descriptions best characterises the district. E26 FA

{n this district, houses are closely packed together and many are in poor State of repair. Mutu-
occupation is a common feature, and most families have low incomes ........ . cette eee

 

This district consists largely of council houses and flats or tess expensive privately owned houses, for
example, older terrace houses. Multi-occupation is unusual and families have average incomes. Include
“new towns’ here oo. : . wee :

in this district houses are well Spaced and the majority are well maintained Multi-occupation is rare
and most families have higher than average incomes. : : .
This district is part of a small market town, ural community or village. Some families may tack basic
amenities but others may be fairly well-to-do. {t is mainty characterised by the fact that well-to-do
and poorer families live fairty close together in the community ..... : : :

tf none of these descriptions seem to characterise the district N tives in, Please describe tn your own

words what it is tike: sees
. ERSTE

 

H.3 From the health visitor's knowledge and observations of the child, and where necessary from available
records, what is N’s intellectual development considered to be?
Normat or above average veovsnsnde LOR.

Slightly backward ucecsccesccccseessecesesseeeee ceveeces faeseee

Definitely backward .........

  

'f at all backward in intellectual development, give any relevant diagnosis and details of
assessment procedure(s) or investigations, if any.

 

 

H.4 How well do you know this family?

Very well. £26 q
Fairly well
Slightly betes .
Never in contact before this interview -
Other situation, please describe...........

H.S Were there any interruptions, distractions or other problems which made interviewing difficult?

No. no difficulty oo,  EAt3

Yes, slight difficulty 00.0.
Yes. considerable difficuity..

If yes, please describe any difficulty

 

H.6 What procedure was adopted for the completion of the Maternal Setf-completion Questionnaire?

Questionnaire lett with mother and collected after completion ......

Mother completed it without help during the home interview

 

Mother completed it with some help from the interviewer occ cccceeeceeecessees sees

Interviewer read out all the questions for mother fo respond ......e wees

Other procedure, <<. cere cette tec eeeneeeceesseceeensetesseceecivssstessnscsetee Gesveseeeees

 

 

 

Pawn

WeRUWnNn

(44)

(45)

(46)

{47)

(48)

 




 

 

Date of interview eee E<71 —

Name of Health Visitor conducting the interview! ooo ccecsssscsesseesecseeecseseeteceeeees
Employing Area Health Authority/Health Board .......ccce ccc ccecsseesseseeccaneees tteesssetesseseeseseees ee
Health District, if applicable eee ee ccc esses cesnsneecssensesecnsnsessnnesstssnaneesessatisessesstussesssaneuivesiuesttnesaseeceecs | ~
Please note below:
{i} any other relevant information which you feel has not already been brought out in the

interview form,

(ii) any comments or observations by the General Practitioner, if he so wishes,
(iii) any further details about questions if insufficient space earlier in questionnaire,

 

 

 

RELATIONS#H1P OF INFORNANT :« E272

H.7 Please indicate degree of completeness of the documents.

 

 

 

 

Fully Partly Not if not fully completed,
completed completed completed give reason(s}

Home Interview |

Questionnaire ' 2 3

Maternal Seif-completion 3

Questionnaire 1 2

Test Booklet 1 2 3

 

 

 

We are most grateful for the time you have given. Thank you for your help.



