
 

: Not Ancweved (-!)
: Does Net Apel C2)

N@ol_ Ni

 

 

 

 

 

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL ' Card ‘Local Authority ain : ~y
No. Code Number | Child's Code Number \

. : —

| : / ! |

‘Ter t z nr rr re

 

 

Region N02
EDUCATIONAL ASSESSMENT
NATIONAL CHILD DEVELOPMENT STUDY

(1988 Cohort)

Adam House. |. Fuzroy Square, London, WIP SAH
04-387 4263.45

SPONSORED AND ADMINISTERED BY SHALIATAS GE CORSULTATOOE COMSELIEE
National Bureau for Co-operation in Child Cure Mary D. Sheridan. ot ok te
LOPSPONSORED BY VHADOIAS OF STEERING Comin WOOD Wall aoa mn
Insttute of Child Health, University of London PRPOU LSE COnTHREE Homes
National Birthday Trust Fund Prat NR tutte .
Nanonal Foundation for Educational Research in Engiand and Wales atewor NR. butler, 4.0.. 18 CP AC Ht

Meso MLL. Keflmer Pringles #4. 600. DIP EO rsy cH

N COLLABORATION WITH

CORDA C TUR AND FIESCIEAL INWESTIG ALUM
ENGLAND — Assoctation of Chef Education Ofkcers

AND WaALes Suciery of Medical Officers of Meaiin Beer wea nie caesar
ScMTLaND Association of Directors of Education CRDINECTONS: MLJO Ro Mea, #8
Association of School Medical and Dental Officers J. Mt, Tanner, 0.0.0. or

WD. Wall, asa niin

SU S1OH RESEARCH GFFU TM
BOD, Wedge. Moc. erin Qs nie arrestin,

SECOND FOLLOW-UP OF CHILDREN BORN 3rd-9th MARCH, 1958.

 

Col. 11
Please ring

1. {@) CHILD°S NAME (Surname) appropriate

number

(Christian Names in full)
Boy 1
N622, (h) SEX (Please ring appropriate number)
Girl 2
2. (a) DATE OF BIRTH 13/58.

TODAY'S DATE / NZIO Jt9 N@lI

3. (a2) NAME AND ADDRESS OF PRESENT SCHOOL

Leave blank

{bh

Col. 12-13

 

(6) SCHOOL NUMBER (as designated by the Department of Education and Science or the

: + ve ble
Scottish Education Department) Leave blank

Col. 14

 

TELEPHONE NUMBER OF SCHOOL —
Cal. 1S

{ce

 

(d) NAME OF HEAD OR PRINCIPAL (MR./ MRS. ; MISS) Sex N@2,

 

(e) NAME OF CHILD'S CLASS TEACHER (MR./ MRS. / MISS) Sex N24

 

Col, 16-17
4. (a2) DATE OF CHILD’S ADMISSION TO PRESENT SCHOOL i Na. NZI5 :
|
(6) CHILD'S PREVIOUS SCHOOL (if any). Please give name and address, if

known, or any other information which will enable us to trace the school.

1

| Leave blank
'Col, 18 19 2 210220 dds
f
|

 

%& The Introductory Notes and Test Instructions are in the centre pages of the Test Booklet

  




Ae St

NO24s

NS25«.

N@24 *

3

NS35

Not, Answered (-1) ~
Does Na Apply =)

2

SECTION A
The six questions in this section are about the school
PLEASE ANSWER EITHER QUESTION 5 OR QUESTION 6
For schools maintained by » Local Education Authority
Please indicate category to which your schoo! belongs by ringing appropriate number:
Junior School .. . . . -
Junior with Infants School (or Primary with Infants)
All-age School
Secondary School . . .
Day Special School (please specify type/s of handicap) ..

 

Residential Special School (please specify type/s of handicap) ..
Other (please specify)

For schools not maintained by a Local Education Authority

Please indicate category to which your school belongs by ringing appropriate number:

Independent School (this includes grant-aided schools) catering wholly or mainly for children who
are not handicapped .. a . . . . .

Day Special School for handicapped children (please specify type/s of handicap)
Residential Special School (please specify type/s of handicap)

Other (please specify)

Total number of pupils at present on school roll (Please enter the number in the boxes, ¢.g. if 66

children, enter | 0 6 6}) os

(a) How many full-time members of the tcaching staff does your school currently have? (Excluding
the Headteacher):
Please enter the number here.

(6) If there are part-time members of staff, what full-time equivalent number of teachers do they

represent? (E.g. 4 teachers teaching half-time would be equivalent to 2 full-time teachers):
Please enter the number here...
(c) How many of the above full-time teachers (included in 8a) have been at your school for the
following lengths of time?: Enter numbers below

NSS 6 Temporary (or supply) teachers...

NSS Less than one whole year.

NS3 1 o¢ 2 whole years...

N@3aQq 3, 4 or $ whole years...

N840 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 whole years..

NBG Po More than 10 whole years... ucssnmnnnsunnuatnunent

 

 
 
 
  

 

 

~~

Cal 3s
Please ring
appropriate

number

|
5

i

“1

9

Col. 26

Please rine
appropriate

number

9

Col.27 - 28-29

LE

|

Leave blank
Col. 30-31

Col.

 

 

 




 

: Neb Angwered, (i)
| Does Not Apply (2)

|
'Col. 40 - $1 - 42
N@4+5 9. How old are the main school buildings? (Please enter the number of years in the box, e.g. for 8 years | —————___~

enter! 0| 0} 8); if the school is situated on more than one site, please give details below)

N@ 10. Approximately what percentage of your present eleven-year-olds do you consider as suitable for an
academic secondary education leading to G.C.E. ‘O° level (or Scottish Certificate of Education ‘O°
Grade) in five or more subjects? (Please enter the percentage in the box, e.g. for 5 per cent enter

I
!
(01 5]) . Bee o . . ce ae . . i }

 

SECTION B

This section contains questions about the child and his parents which might best be answered by the
class teacher in consultation with the Head-

. oo . toe . Please ring
N@ Il. (a) Since the beginning of the school year has either parent taken the initiative to discuss the appropriate
child, even briefly, with you or any member of the teaching staff? ther

| Col. 45

(Please ring one code only) Yes, father only I

Yes, mother only .. : | 2

Yes, both | 3

Neither 4

N50 (6) During this period has there been any such discussion with the parents at the instigation of you

 

 

1
|
é ' Col. 46
or your teaching staff? i
Yes | 1
No | 2
12. With regard to the child's educational progress. do the father and mother appear: (Please ring one Col. 47
code only for each parent):
( Overconcerned about the child's progress and/or expecting too highastandard? .. 1
Very interested? 2
To show some interest? . . . an . : . a . oe 3
N35 | FATHER
To show little or no interest . . ve . os 4
Can't say . . . . a .. . . . 5
Inapplicable (¢.g. no father) a a . . an . os 9 (DNA)
Col. 48
Over concerned about the child’s progress and/or expecting too high a standard? . |
Very interested? . . oe .. . : : . 2
J To show some interest? .. . . : . . 3
NB5pQMon {ER 4
! To show little or no interest? .. . . . 4
Can't say... . oe : : : . . : : 3
| Inapplicable (c.g. no mother) a . : . 9 CDNA)

 

   




_ Ne Answered C1!)
Does Neb Apply (2)

4

13. Note: Questions 13 (a) to 13 (e) are not mutually exclusive and should all be completed.

NB53 ”

NBSto

N2S5 )

N856°

N@g?°

In addition to anything which the class teacher may be able to do in the normal way, ts the child
receiving help within the schoo! because of any educstional or mental backwardness?

Yes
No ..

Hf the child is receiving such help, please describe briefly: if not, but you consider this necessary,
detail the provision you have in mind.

In addition to anything which the class teacher may be able to do in the normal way, is the child
receiving help within the school because of any educational or mental superiority?

Yes
No

If the child is receiving such help, please describe briefly; if not. but you consider this necessary.
detail the provision you have in mind.

   

In addition to anything which the class teacher may be able to do in the normal way, is the child
receiving help within the school because of any behaviour difficulties?

Yes
No

If the child is receiving such help, please describe briefly: if nor, but you consider this necessary,
detail the provision you have in mind.

In addition to anything which the class teacher may be able to do in the normal way, is the child
receiving help within the school because of any physical or sensory disability?

Yes . »
No . . +
If the child is receiving such help, please describe briefly: if aot, but you consider this necessary,

detail the provision you have in mind. '

Do you consider, irrespective of the facilities in your area, that the child would benefit now from
attendance at a special school”?
Yes

No
Can't say

   

Pleave rim:
appropriate
manher

Ca 4

.

 

Col, 30

rey

Cot. 51

Ww

Col. $2

12

 

Col. $3

 

 




 

Ne Answered, (-1)
Does N& Apr (-2)

NS53 14. 1. the child at present receiving free school meals?

Yes

No
N54 1S. As far as you are aware, has the child been referred to any agency because of difficultics which have
affected his educational progress or behaviour? (E.g. School Health Service, Child Guidance Clinic,

School Psychological Service, Education Welfare Service or School Attendance Officer, Children’s
Department, Doctor, Probation Officer).

(Include referrals made at a routine medical examination, and any Yes

made by another school or by the parents, if known). No

If Yes, please state agency involved and, briefly, the reasons for each referral.

NS60 16. Since the child has been in your school has there been any noticeable improvement or deterioration
in the rate of his educational progress or in his behaviour and adjustment?

Marked improvement
Some improvement
No noticeable change
Some deterioration
Marked deterioration
Can't say

If there has been a change, please describe briefly; also mention any factors you feel may be
responsible.

From your present knowledge of this child and his circumstances:

17. (a) What do you think he is likely to achieve academically at secondary school and/or in further
education?

(6) What kind of job or career do you feel might best suit his abilities or aptitudes? (Please feel free
to be as specific or as general as you wish.)

 

Please ving
appropriatt
manber

Col. 54

4

Col. 55

ta

Col. 56

 




 —

 

a Net Answered (-!)
Does Net hp py (2)

6

SECTION C
This section contains questions about the child and his class and might best he completed by the class teacher

Please ring
appropriate

 

 

 

 

 

number
NQ6! 18. (a) Is the child's age group streamed* by ability? Col, $7
Yes . 1
No . . . a
NS62 (6) If streamed by ability, is he in: a
A higher ability class . I
An average ability class .. 2
A lower ability class? .. 3
*If the situation in your school does not fit this coding, please describe below: 9
Col. 59 - 60
N&65 19. Number of pupils in the child’s present class? (Please enter the number in the boxes: include other oy
year groups if all children are in the same class) .. os . +e oe . . ee
NSb6 20. How many teachers normally teach this class? beave blank
Enter number here j i
t i
If there is more than one teacher. please enter details below: oo
‘
: Name of Teacher Hours per week Subjects or Activities
| !
1
i
!
'
+ i
!
| |
Col.62 - 63 - 6S
N10" (a) Number of possible half-day attendances for this child in the present school year. (Please enter 7
the number in the boxes) an Le vs . . | ot
: . . . . Col. 65 - 66 - 67
(5) Number of half-days absent during this period. (Please enter the number in the boxes, e.g. if 24 ———
N@74+ half-days absententer[O]2/4!) 2. wk ee [|
22, For children in English or Welsh schools only. Will this child be proceeding to a local authority Col. 648
NS15 maintained or direct grant selective secondary school (i.e. Grammar, Secondary Modern, Technical Please ring
School); to some form of maintained comprehensive school; or to an independent school? ocr
Selective secondary school -. : 1
Maintained comprehensive school 2
Independent school 3
Other school (please specify) 4
Don't know a . . 5
9

 

   




 

Net Answered (-!)
Does N& hep (-2)

7

23. You are asked below to rate some aspects of the child’s ability and attainment. Each area is subdivided into live
categories. [tis expected that in a representative cross-section of children of this age, approximutely five per cent fall
into the first category, the next 25 per cent would fit the second description, the middle or average group of 40 per cent
would be in the third category, the next 25 per cent in the fourth category and the final five percent in the fifth category.

In so far as your professional experience will allow. please rate the child in relation to all children of his age (i.e.
not just his present class or even his school) by ringing the number opposite the appropriate description.

 

Please ving
appropriate
number
Col. 69
NQ1 6 (a) General knowledge .. Exceptionally well-informed for his age se . . I
Above average. Good background of general knowledge 2
Average for his age in this respect . . . a 3
Below average. Rather timited knowledge... a . os 4
Lack of general knowledge is a handicap in school 5
Col. 70
N317 (b) Number work . Extremely good facility with number and with mathematical concepts.
Grasps new processes very quickly. Shows insight and understanding 1
Understanding of number work well developed. Grasps new pro-
cesses without much difficulty 2
Average ability in this sphere... oe an a + e 3
Rather slow to understand new processes. Rather poor facility with
numbers, although able to do some things by rote a . se 4
Little, if any, ability in this sphere. Shows very little understanding
of number work .. os . . oe -s - 5
Col. 75
N318 (c) Use of books os Exceptional. Reads very widely for pleasure and information os 1
Above average. Turns to books very readily 2
Average. Skill and comprehension satisfactory for school require-
ments a . ve . . . a oe 3
Below average. Still learning the skill of reading: not inclined to
turn spontaneously to books for pleasure or information + .- 4
Very poor or non-reader. Recognises few words: very limited use of
books because of poor skill . os . . + a 5
Col. 72
N19 (d) Oral ability . Exceptionally good for his age. Shows extensive vocabulary and
complex sentence formation . . . . . 1
Above average, Has very good vocabulary and expresses himself
well orally 2
Average for his age. Expresses himself satisfactorily in conversation
and oral lessons... . . oe oe : : oe 3
Below average, Rather limited in vocabulary, tending to use simple
phraseology - . . : : . . 4
Very limited oral ability for hisage .. . . 5

 

 

 




i
‘

Does Ne Apr C2

Ned Answered (-i .

24. Below are a few descriptions of behaviour shown by some children. Any one particular description is tikely to apply to
only a minority of children: moreover quite a proportion of children may show at least in some degree one of the aspects

of behaviour listed below. If the description fits the child, please circle the figure {in the first column.

Ifitisa marginal

case. or you are in some doubt about the child’s inclusion under this description, please circle the figure 2 in the next

column, If the description does not fit the child at all circle the figure 3 in the third column.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Not at Don't
Certainty Somewhat all ANON
N390" Poor control of hands (e.g. in writing, drawing, ' + 3 4 Col. 32
handwork) _ . . . . - : oe
Nal (hy Squirmy. tidgety child 2 3 4 Col. 74
N@2- Poor physical co-ordination (¢.g. in jumping, ; > 3 4 Col. 78
running or throwing) . Le . . . os
NB «é} Often running or jumping about; hardly ever 3 3 4 Col. %6
sull . . - . - Le
Net Difficult to understand because of poor speech 1 2 3 4 Col. 77
N29 (f) Imperfect grasp of English (i.e. when native — | ! 5 3 4 Col. 78
language is other than English or Welsh) .. | - ,
Col. 79

N2S6 25. (a) Compared with other children at this age. docs he/she reveal outstanding ability in any area?
E.g. writing stories, drawing, chess, modelling, music, science, sport. etc.

Yes

No
If Yes, please describe.

(by What would you consider are this child's most favourable qualities of personality and character?

NOS What do you'regard as his/her most serious weaknesses or drawbacks of personality or character ?

 

Primed by King, Thorne & Siuce Lid., School Road. Hove, Sues, WN3 SJE

   

 

Please ring
appropriate
number

>

Leave blank
Col. 80

 



	Section A - The School
	Section B - Child & Parent
	Section C - Child and their class

