
njs
Typewritten Text

njs
Typewritten Text

njs
Typewritten Text

njs
Typewritten Text

NATIONAL SURVEY OF HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT
(Employment and Training Study)

 

 

STRICTLY Y 3b
CONFIDENTIAL FOLLOW-UP OF 1963 SCHOOL-LEAVERS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ref. No CHANGED PERMANENT ADDRESS (In ink)
ea OR TEMPORARY ADDRESS (In pencil)

Name

eoccccccccccccccccccese Pocccccsccccsccsccscccoescscoceose

and

address

eoccccceccococe eeccccccce eccccoces eocccccscccoece eecvccce

 

 

 

School torecolllegeslasteattende dics. ccrsscrsacce se lsoeassiece ene saecsesseeseascnaeas
Date of LC avimg corse. cceccevecosssosccsecescesesscnsencsenasecetsedeedesesaccesesutevcnedies

Ojaciinetivern tint Oke /Ney USES cosaonasncadadnadeandnbosdon.onpono8H606q0n0Gbo00100080000
as reported by school

The above-named young person is a member of this national sample of young people born in
the week 3—9 March 1946, At the time of the interviews carried out by Youth Employment Officers,
he/she was still attending school or college full-time. Since that time he/she has left school or
college, and in order to have accurate knowledge of the job histories, up to their eighteenth
birthdays, of all those Survey members who have now started work, Youth Employment Officers are
asked to obtain information for these late school-leavers in a similar manner to their follow-up of
the young people they have previously interviewed on behalf of the Survey.

Please complete Question 1 with all jobs, periods of unemployment or sickness from the date
of leaving full-time education up to 9 March 1964. The method of obtaining this information is left
entirely to the discretion of YEOs. But we hope that where changes of jobs have occurred it will
be possible to ensure the record is complete. In a similar way, Question 2 refers to part-time
education.

When you have completed this form, please return it to your Regional Representative (via
County or County Borough YEOs where appropriate).

If the youngster has moved, but his address remains inside your area, please insert the new
address in ink at the top of the page.

If the new address is outside your area, please complete the form as far as you can from your
own information, and return the form immediately to your County YEO or Regional Representative
for re-allocation.

If the youngster is living temporarily away from home, and the home YEO cannot provide a
complete record, please pencil in the temporary address at the top of the form, and return it for
re-allocation to your County YEO or Regional Representative, as appropriate.

 

 

Ken
eC
2 e
e TYPE OF = PERIOD
oS me
SERIAL NO. OCCUPATION 2 :
E Ee 3 EEE REASON FOR LEAVING
~~
oe (e.g. sales assistant) ‘6 BUSINESS 8
“" —
or ‘unemployed’ or ‘sick’ a (e.ge retail grocer) fe FROM TO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* according to the classification used for EDS 80 returns, coded thus:

1 = Apprenticeship or learnership to skilled crafts

2 = Employment leading to recognised professional qualifications

3 = Clerical employment

4 = Employment with training lasting at least a year, not covered above

5 = Employment with training lasting at least 8 weeks, not covered above
6 = Other employment




2. PART-TIME CLASSES ATTENDED 1963/4

 

EVENINGS, PTDR
NAME OF COLLEGE TYPE OF COURSE FULL-TIME, ETC.?

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE RECORD

 

PLACE DATE OCCUPATION RECOMMENDED AGREED ?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5. Was the information in Question 1 obtained

from records ? 1
by letter ? 2
by face-to-face interview? 3
by contact with parents ? 4
other means, namely ....cessesccscescsaccereeres Rasen nestecentceestarca neteiae tse

6. Please record your comments on this young person’s career to date, as outlined on this form. Describe
any outstanding factors inthe local employment situation which shouldbe taken into account in looking
at this young person’s job history. If he/she has never had a paid job, please note the circumstances
here. If you find that this young person is now married, please record this information here.

eeonee Pewee ween ner sn ares esse renee seeeeseeeeeeteseeeaeeseeenae

SIGNATURE OF YEO

DATE «cccceccssccsccccssccsscessscrsccnssonsscessceescencesees = RMON Reena e eet e tee sesesersececs oe eee eeeenecares teeeeceee YEB

THANK YOU ONCE AGAIN FOR YOUR HELP





