
THE NATIONAL SURVEY OF HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT

 

 

v7
Cane MEURVAL. FURTHER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION SURVEY 1966

COLLEGE QUESTIONNAIRE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ref. No. Name ot College)....)...ss.ssseeed eh atten
Name

Bee tae ee ee i aoa al errr em an Raat e vss coals taulyevaees snkoaeee pesarectecesteees
Address New Golliege vr irsscccecesscstecessece sesceesere ee vantiees

 

 

 

EXPLANATORY NOTE

The student named above is a member of this national sample of 5,000 young people who have been followed up since
their birth in 1946, through the generous co-operation of Local Education Authorities, schools, the Youth Employment
Service, health visitors and colleges. We are now trying to collect a little information about the further studies of the
sample members, so that we can have accurate information about their educational attainment.

We believe, either from a form completed by the college last year, or from information supplied by the student, that
he attended your college in the session 1965/66. We should be most grateful if you would provide us with
information about the course and his performance EVEN IF HE DID NOT COMPLETE THE SESSION. Since all the

information which we require will be in the college’s records, no direct contact with the student will be required.

All information will be regarded as strictly confidential and there is no possibility of the name of the college, or of
the student, appearing in any report.

HOW TO FILL IN THIS FORM

' We would ask that this form be completed by the Head of Department concerned. Where a question has several possible
answers, please circle the number opposite the appropriate reply. If you feel that further amplification of any reply is
needed, please do not hesitate to give it.

If the student did not enrol at this college in 1965/66 but you know he went on to another college, please insert the
name of the new college at the top of the form and return it for re-allocation.

When the form is completed please return it to the National Survey of Health and Development, M.R.C. Unit, London
School of Economics, Houghton Street, London, W.C.2, by the end of November, 1966.

 

 

2. a) What type of course was

 

 

Course attended
1965/66 according full-time

to our information

Course attended cis? (Rine.morelvbawene)|. | 1a gee
1964/65. if necessary) block release 2
sandwich 3

evening 4

5

 

 

b) If evenings, how many a

 

 

 

week?
1. Please give the official title
and year of the course of :
study taken by this student c) If block release, full-time
in 1965/66. (If a ‘repeat’ or sandwich, please give

the number of college

ear, please state ‘
y d ) weeks in the year.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




3. CLASSWORK/HOMEWORK RECORD 1965/66 5. For what final exam was he studying?

Examining body .....cc.csesossossesese aecceasivesecrecsooenecsasens notes

Subject Marks Pass Mark

Title Of OX AMS ses vceaisce see ceteece coeteorees en eeo etter one eee aene

Numberiofiexamincssocctcctectcccitecervearectseteueresecccsonceetrdeee

(if applicable)

 

6. Please give this student’s
attendance record, in 1965/66.

SCHOO eeceees eesseurcscces 7%

 

 

 

7. a) Has this student now enrolled for the 1966/67 session?

 

Yes 1
No 0
4, EXAM PERFORMANCE 1965/66
b) For which course?
Serene Subject Marks |Pass Mark
(if ‘no’)
c) When did he last attend? 1... ccsccccccscsccccvcccsccccecase 196

d) Why has he not continued?

 

OVERALL RESULT:

 

 

8. Please answer the following queries which arise out of last year’s survey:

9. Further comment or explanation. (e.g. changes of course by this student, with dates, details and reasons, and any
other remarks you feel appropriate).

Completed by:

 

Status Date

THANK YOU FOR YOUR HELP

 





