
njs
Typewritten Text
WBTS20

njs
Typewritten Text
REGLE

njs
Typewritten Text
MARAG65

njs
Typewritten Text
NOCHIL65

njs
Typewritten Text

NATIONAL SURVEY OF HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT

 

 

STRICTLY 1965 INTERVIEW

CONFIDENTIAL

Hl

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

New name:
Ref. No. (if married)
New address:
Name
WBTS20
(temporary
and address
REGLE
tn pencil)
Address
INSTRUCTIONS

The young man or woman named above is one of this national sample of 5,000 people who have been followed up since
they were born in March 1946. This is the continuation of the survey with which school hurses and health visitors helped
between 1946 and 1961. We have been in regular contact with the young people since 1961 and we have very full information
about employment for those who started work before their eighteenth birthday, in 1964. This short interview is designed to

help us to keep track of the survey sample, to provide us with the latest information about health and accidents, and to
record details of changes of employment before the dates are forgotten.

Interviewers are asked to see the actual survey member named. If he/she Is out, please try to make an appointment for
a time when he/she will be at home. If he/she is away from home, in lodgings or at another temporary address at which he/she
might be contacted by another interviewer, please pencil in the temporary address at the top of the form and return the form
immediately to your Medical Officer of Health. If he/she has moved permanently, please insert the new address in ink and
return the form immediately to your M.O.H. for reallocation. If the survey member is in hospital or some other institution, in
the Armed Forces or abroad, so he/she is not available for interview by anyone, then any information which can be supplied

by parents or relatives will be appreciated. In this case please ensure that the identity of your informant is recorded in
question 15.

Please read this form through so that you are familiar with it, before setting out. In conducting the interview please
ask the questions printed in bold type. Where two or more possible answers are provided please ring the code number opposite
the correct one.

When you have completed the interview please return it to your Medical Officer of Health, to be forwarded to the

National Survey of Health and Development, M.R.C. Unit, London School of Economics, Houghton Street, London W.C.2, by
the end of May 1965.

INTRODUCTION
Please incorporate the following in your introductory remarks:

"All the people in the National Survey of Health and Development are now nineteen years old. A lot of information has
been collected over the years about your health and about what you've been doing at school and at work. Out of all this some
very important studies are being done about the way that young people grow up.

"Ihave been asked to see you just to keep in touch and to ask how you're getting on. This is meant to be the first of a
series of very short visits which we hope to make each year at about this time. | have only a very few questions to ask you
and they’re quite straightforward.

"Of course, everything you say is kept strictly confidential. The staff of the Survey maintain a complete secrecy and

no names are ever mentioned in reports."

PERSONAL INFORMATION

1, Is this your correct name and permanent address? (If not, insert correct details in space at top right. Include a DEFINITE
move in near future. If in Armed Services please ask Service Number.)

2. Are yoUs...seeececeeeeeeeeMarried? =- - 1 - - (date of marriage 196 ) MARAG65
Engaged? - - 2 - -| date of marriage, if fixed 196
Neither --0 future married name, and address if known:

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. (If married)
NAME SEX |DATE OF BIRTH
Have you any children? Yes 1 (if "yes")
No 0
NOCHIL65

 

 

 

 

 

 




njs
Typewritten Text
ACCS65

njs
Typewritten Text
HOAD65

njs
Typewritten Text
H1RETM

njs
Typewritten Text
HOOP65

GENERAL HEALTH

4. (a) The last accident we have recorded for you was

We have no accidents recorded for you for a long time.

Have you had any accident

you were badly cut or bruised, or injured by a chemical?

since then
in recent years

ACCS65

 

in which you were burnt or scalded, you broke a bone,

 

Yes 1
No )
(b) (if "yes" please ask for the following details about each accident, starting with the earliest)
ACCIDENT 1 ACCIDENT 2 ACCIDENT 3

 

Type of injury, (e.g. burn,
scald, broken bone, cut etc.)

 

Part or patts injured

 

Date of injury

 

Treatment (Hosp. I.P.,
Hosp. O.P., Nursing

 

home, Own home)

If in own home, who gave
treatment? (Dr. Nurse, other)

 

Details of remaining scarring,
disability or deformity

 

How accident occurred (if
burnt by fire, say if electric,
gas, open fire or oilstove)

 

Where it occurred (own home,
school, street etc.)

 

 

 

 

5. (a) The last hospital admission we have recorded for you

was

 

We have no hospital admissions recorded for you fora

long time.

Have you been in hospital as an inpatient
since then?/in recent years?

HOAD65

(b) (if "yes")

Yes 1

 

What hospital was it?

 

When did you go in?

 

What were you in
hospital for?

 

How long were you
in hospital?

 

What was the doctor’s
name who looked after
you?

 

 

 

6. Since January 1963, have you attended a hospital
out-patient department or clinic?

HIRETM
HOOP 65

(if "yes")

Yes 1
No 0

 

What hospital/clinic
was it?

 

When did you go first?

 

Why did you go?

 

 

 

 

7. Are you registered with a Doctor?
Yes, in this district i

Yes, in home district

(if living away from home) 2

Yes, in old district
(if recently moved) . 3

No 0

(Please ask the name of the doctor and his address. If the
survey member does not know the address, or is unwilling to
give it, please don’t press the point. You may be able to
supply the address from your own knowledge. We only wish to
have this information as an extra means of tracing people who
move.)

 

 

 

address confirmed (tick)

 

 

 

 




njs
Typewritten Text
H1RETM

njs
Typewritten Text
NOWKIL65

njs
Typewritten Text
punched from extraction sheet

njs
Typewritten Text
JOBNO65

8. (a) Have you seen a family Doctor in the National Health Service since this time last year? HIRETM

(on own account)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Yes 1 At surgery At home
No 0 (skip to Q9) never 9 0
(if "yes") once or twice 1 1
; —5ti 2 2
(i) About how many times did you attend the Doctor's surgery? he
‘ 6 —10 times 3 3
11 : : ar 2.
ii) About how many times did the Doctor visit you at home? More than 10 : ;
(b) (if total more than 2) times
Were these visits all about the same time, or were they spread out at intervals?
(circle the number applicable — more than one if necessary)
REASON FOR VISITS
All grouped within a few weeks during a period of —
acute illness or disability 1
Spread over a period of 1 — 3 months Z
Spreai throughout the year 3
Further comment if necessary:
9. Have you seen any other Doctor since this time last year? Yes 1
For example a Doctor at work or a private Doctor? No 0
COMPLAINT NUMBER OF VISITS TYPE OF DOCTOR
(if "yes" )
since you started work?
10. Have you been off work through accident or illness since pay 1963? Ves 1
NOWKIL65 (long enough to need a Doctor’s certificate} No 0
APPROXIMATE DATE NATURE OF ACCIDENT, ILLNESS TIME OFF WORK
EMPLOYMENT

11. (Our last information was that this survey member was in the occupation entered in red below. Ask "are you stiil
?" and if he/she is still in the same job at the same firm, write "still there’. If he/she has been promoted,

or has a different job within the same firm, write the new job on the next line, and write "same firm" in column 3, with the
date of the change in column 4, If he/she has left that job, ask the date of leaving, and fill in the details of any other jobs
which he/she has had up to the present. If he/she is now unemployed, or not working from choice, write unemployed" or
"not working" as the last entry. If he/she is now a full time student, ask the name of the college and che nature of the
course and supply these details. If he/she is in hospital, borstal, prison or any other institution, please record this fact.)

 

 

1 ez 3 4 5 6
Serial Type of job Type of firm Date Date
no. (i.e. what do YOU do?) (i.e. what do THEY do?) started left Reason for leaving
of job e.g.1.7.63/e.2,15.8.63
JOBNO65

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




njs
Typewritten Text
EVCL65

njs
Typewritten Text
COMPH1

njs
Typewritten Text
TNWK65

njs
Typewritten Text
IH11

njs
Typewritten Text

njs
Typewritten Text

TNWK65 v2 i

12. Have you been out of work at all since this time last year?
(i.e. looking for work)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

No 0
APPROXIMATE DATE LENGTH OF SPELL CIRCUMSTANCES
13. Have you been taking any part-time day or evening classes, No 0
a correspondence course, or studying at home since last September? Yes, college 1
Yes, correspondence 2
EVCL65 :
Yes, at home 3

 

Name of COLLEGE or of CORRESPONDENCE COURSE] Name of COURSE or SUBJECTS STUDIED] DAY or EVENING, or "HOME"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14. Queries arising from earlier surveys

END OF INTERVIEW

Please thank the survey member for his/her help over the years

 

15. Have you interviewed: The survey member named? 1
Parent? 2

Other, namely

 

16. Is the Doctor’s address in Question 7 correct? Please confirm or correct,

17. Please use this space to comment on any unusual aspect of this young person’s health, career, or personal circumstances
not clearly brought out in the interview, but which you feel ought to be mentioned.

ieHalsl

COMPH1

Signature of interviewer Date of interview

 

Local Health Authority

 

THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR HELP
4





