
THE NATIONAL SURVEY OF HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT

 

 

STRICTLY Y8
CONFIDENTIAL | FURTHER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION SURVEY 1968
COLLEGE QUESTIONNAIRE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ref. No. Name onGollegel sires teins eee ern c- eee
Name

aad ey Fr SENT stl: Ren sbonne th naendsnaensscaer tga car ieee tcnaee ase ee genes
Address New Collegei Since. catmominans Meas ater cutee

 

 

 

EXPLANATORY NOTE

The student named above is a member of this national sample of 5,000 young people who have been followed up
since their birth in 1946, through the generous co-operation of Local Education Authorities, schools, the Youth Employ-
ment Service, health visitors and colleges. We are now trying to collect a little information about the further studies of the
sample members, so that we can have accurate information about their educational attainment.

We believe, either from a form completed by the college in 1966, or from information supplied by the student, that he
attended your college in the sessions 1966/67 or 1967/68. We should be most grateful if you would provide us with
information about the course and his performance EVEN IF HE DID NOT COMPLETE THE SESSION. Since all the

information which we require will be in the college’s records, no direct contact with the student will be required.

All information will be regarded as strictly confidential and there is no possibility of the name of the college, or of
the student, appearing in any report.

HOW TO FILL IN THIS FORM

We would ask that this form be completed by the Head of Department concerned. Where a question has several possible
answers, please circle the number opposite the appropriate reply. If you feel that further amplification of any reply is
needed, please do not hesitate to give it. Please put your answers in the column appropriate to the session 1966/67 or

1967/68.

If the student did not enrol at this college in these two years but you know he went on to another college, please
insert the name of the new college at the top of the form and return it for re-allocation.

When the form is completed please return it to the National Survey of Health and Development, M.R.C. Unit, London
School of Economics, Houghton Street, London W.C.2, by the end of November, 1968.

 

Course attended 1965/66

 

1966/67 1967/68

 

Courses attended according to our information

 

1. Did he in fact, attend your college in
that session? No 0 No 0

 

(If ‘No’) Did he enrol at another college?
If so, which?

 

2. If he did attend, please give the official
title and year of the course of study
taken by this student.

(If a ‘repeat’ year, please state)

 

part-time day 1

part-time day 1

3. a) What type of course was this?
(Ring more than one if necessary) block release 2 block release 2
sandwich 3 sandwich 3
evening 4 evening 4
full-time 5 full-time 5

b) If evenings, how many a week?

c) If block release, full-time or sandwich,
please give the number of college weeks
in the year

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1966/67 1967/68

4. CLASSWORK/HOMEWORK RECORD CLASSWORK/HOMEWORK RECORD

Subject Marks |Pass Mark Subject Marks |Pass Mark
5. EXAM PERFORMANCE EXAM PERFORMANCE

Name and level of exam:- Name and level of exam:-
Subject Marks |Pass Mark Subject Marks | Pass Mark
Overall Result:- Overall Result:
6. ATTENDANCE RECORD % | ATTENDANCE RECORD %
7. For what final exam was he studying? 9. (If no longer attending college)
a) When did he last attend? ..............eeceeeeeceees 196

Examining body:

Title of exam

Number of exam

(if applicable)

 

8. a) Has this student now enrolled for the 1968/69
session?

No 0
Yes, at this college 1

Yes, at another college 2

Name of new college:

b) For which course?

b) Why did he not continue?

 

10. Please answer the following queries which arise out of

last year’s survey:

 

 

11. Further comment or explanation. (e.g. changes of course by this student, with dates, and reasons, and any other

remarks you feel appropriate).

Completed by:

 

Status

Date

THANK YOU FOR YOUR HELP

 





