
THE NATIONAL SURVEY OF HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT

 

 

Y6
PLLA ee FURTHER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION SURVEY 1965

COLLEGE QUESTIONNAIRE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ref. No. Name OF COMCRER 7 catassemcercet Viueciseissieanseast
Name

=, a ae cera actseuve cous caivensdgavs dens Soters eae teeter Saami goo antaneTees
Address ING Wille peers. cu cicaccssenscarsscesccciesctessccesscsanasavess

 

 

 

EXPLANATORY NOTE

The student named above is a member of this national sample of 5,000 young people who have been followed up since
their birth in 1946, through the generous co-operation of Local Education Authorities, schools, the Youth Employment
Service, health visitors and colleges. We are now trying to collect a little information about the further studies of the
sample members, so that we can have accurate information about their educational attainment.

We believe, either from a form completed by the college last year, or from information supplied in an interview, that
this student attended your college in the session 1964/5. We should be most grateful if you would provide us with
information about the course and his performance EVEN IF HE DID NOT COMPLETE THE SESSION. Since all the
information which we require will be in the college’s records, no direct contact with the student will be required.

All information will be regarded as strictly confidential and there is no possibility of the name of the college, or of
the student, appearing in any report.

HOW TO FILL IN THIS FORM

We would ask that this form be completed by the Head of Department concerned. Where a question has several possible
answers, please circle the number opposite the appropriate reply. If you feel that further amplification of any reply is
needed, please do not hesitate to give it.

If the student. did not enrol at this college in 1964/5 but you know he went on to another college, please insert the
name of the new college at the top of the form and return it to your Local Education Authority who will reallocate it.

When the form is completed please return it to your Local Education Authority, to be forwarded to the National Survey
of Health and Development, M.R.C. Unit, London School of Economics, Houghton Street, London, W.C.2, by the end of
November, 1965.

 

 

2. a) What type of course was

 

 

Course attended z
1964/65 according full-time
to our information

Course attended this? (Ring more than one part-time day 1
pt ate if necessary) block release 2
sandwich 3

evening 4

5

 

 

b) If evenings, how many a
week?

 

 

1. Please give the official title
and year of the course of .
ie taken by this student c) If block release, full-time

. e , or sandwich, please give
Me te as panes the number of college
re weeks in the year.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




3. CLASSWORK/HOMEWORK RECORD 1964/65 5. For what final exam was he studying?

Examining body: .....ssccccscccsccscccceccccescsscvscscscccssscscesscnss

Subject Marks Pass Mark

Mitle cot CXAINE ses bose css eicsceds« tes cecleceiasiacd baseascseuesssisuseessee

Number of exams .ccccccoscescccscsccccccccccscccccssccccsesecccescesccce

(if applicable)

 

6. Please give this student’s
attendance record, in 1964/65.

 

 

 

7. a) Has this student now enrolled for the 1965/66 session?

Yes 1
No 0

 

4, EXAM PERFORMANCE 1964/65
b) For which course?

Subject Marks |Pass Mark

(if ‘no’)
c) When did he last attend? ....sssccsssssccecsscecssooe verses 196

d) Why has he not continued?

 

OVERALL RESULT:

 

 

8. Please answer the following queries which arise out of last year’s survey:

9. Further comment or explanation. (e.g. changes of course by this student, with dates, details and reasons, and any
other remarks you feel appropriate).

Completed by:

 

Status Date

 

THANK YOU FOR YOUR HELP





