
HERTFORDSHIRE 31-39 
QUESTIONNAIRE FOR KNEE OA STUDY  

 
 
Name ________________________  Serial No                          
 

Section A – WOMAC (Pain)  
 

Instructions to patients 

 

The following questions concern the amount of pain you have experienced due to 

arthritis in your knees. For each situation please enter the amount of pain experienced 

in the last 48 hours. (Please mark your answer with a tick ‘ ’). 

 

Question: How much pain do you have? 

 

1. Walking on a flat surface 

 

None  Mild  Moderate Severe  Extreme 

 

 

 

2. Going up or down stairs  

 

None  Mild  Moderate Severe  Extreme 

 

 

 

3. At night while in bed 

 

None  Mild  Moderate Severe  Extreme 

 

 

 

4. Sitting or lying 

 

None  Mild  Moderate Severe  Extreme 

 

 

 

5. Standing upright 

 

None  Mild  Moderate Severe  Extreme 

 

 

 

 

 



Section B – EUROQOL 

Instructions to patients 

Please describe which statement best describes your own health today. 

Please mark your answer with a tick ‘’. 

Mobility 

(please tick one box only) 

 

I have no problems in walking about             

I have some problems in walking about          

I am confined to bed                          

Self-Care 

(please tick one box only) 
 

I have no problems with self-care             

I have some problems washing or dressing myself          

I am confined to bed                            

Usual activities (eg. Work, study, housework, family or leisure 
activities)     

(please tick one box only) 

 

I have no problems performing my usual activities             

I have some problems performing my usual activities          

I am unable to perform my usual activities                                                   
                     

Pain/Discomfort 

(please tick one box only) 

 

I have no pain or discomfort             

I have moderate pain or discomfort          

I extreme pain or discomfort 

Anxiety/Depression 

(please tick one box only) 
I am not anxious or depressed             

I am moderately anxious or depressed          

I am extremely anxious or depressed                            
                            

 

 

 



Section C - Joint Problems 

 

Instructions to patients 

 
Please mark with a tick `’ those statements that apply to you. 

       No Yes 
1. Have you had pain in or around your right knee on most 

days in the last month? 

 

       Never Occasionally Most nights

       

1(a). If YES, does it ever wake you at night?  

 

       No Yes 

2. Have you had pain in or around your left knee on most 

days in the last month? 

 

       Never Occasionally Most nights

       

2(a). If YES, does it ever wake you at night?  

 

       No Yes 

3. Have you ever had an injury to your knee bad enough to 

impair weight bearing for a week or more? 

       Left  Right Both 

3(a). If YES, which knee? 

 

 

          

4. Have you ever had any of the following procedures performed on your knee(s) for osteoarthritis? 

If YES, please indicate which knee   No Yes  Left  Right Both 

 

(a). Steroid injection 

 

(b) Cartilage operation 

 

(c) Knee washout/lavage/arthroscopy 

 

(d) Knee replacement 

     

  

No  Yes    

5.Have you ever been told you have osteoarthritis 

(degeneration/wear and tear) of your knee(s) by a doctor? 

 

       No Yes 

6.Has any member of your family suffered from knee  

osteoarthritis (knee degeneration or wear and tear)? 

      

 If yes, what relation to you are they?     

    Grandparent 

 

    Mother 

 

 

    Father 

 

    Sister/Brother 

 

    Your child 

 

    Other  

I 

F 

 

Y

E 

S 



    

Section D - Occupation 

Instructions to patients 

Please mark with a tick `’ those statements that apply to you for the main job (or job 

that included the most bending, lifting, squatting, kneeling) you had during your 

working life. 

 

1. In an average working day did you   No Yes Don’t know 

       

a) Sit for more than two hours in total?  

 

b) Stand or walk for more than two hours in 

total?  

 

c) Kneel for more than one hour in total? 

 

d) Squat for more than one hour in total?  

 

e) Drive for more than four hours in total? 

 

f) Walk more than two miles in total?  

 

g) Climb more than 30 flights of stairs? 

 

2. In the course of your work, how often on average did you lift or carry weights 

of 20 lbs (10kg) or more? [Equivalent to 2x5kg bags of potatoes] 
 

Never  Less than once  1 to 10 times  More than 10 times  

  per week  per week  per week 

 

 

3. In the course of your work, how often on average did you lift or carry weights 

of 56 lbs (25kg) or more? [Equivalent to half a bag of cement] 
 

Never  Less than once  1 to 10 times  More than 10 times  

  per week  per week  per week 

 

 

4. In the course of your work, how often on average did you lift or carry weights 

of 1 cwt (112 lbs, 50kg) or more? [Equivalent to 1 bag of cement] 
 

Never  Less than once  1 to 10 times  More than 10 times  

  per week  per week  per week 

 

 

5. In the course of your work, how often on average did you lift or carry weights 

of 2 cwt (224lbs, 100kg) or more? [Equivalent to 2 bags of cement] 
 

Never  Less than once  1 to 10 times  More than 10 times  

  per week  per week  per week 

 


