
 
 

MEDICAL RESEARCH COUNCIL 
 
 
 

 
 

        SERIAL NO: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Health & Employment After 
Fifty (HEAF Study): 

Follow-up Questionnaire 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

The answers given on this form are confidential. 
Replies will only been seen by a small medical research team 

 
 

VERSION 2  18 November 2014 

 



 Section One: About Yourself and Your Work 
 

 
 Please fill in today’s date        2 0 1   

       Day  Month  Year  
 
 
 

1. Please fill in your date of birth             

       Day  Month  Year  
 
 

2. What is your current marital status? (Tick one box)  
            

a) Married   b) Single   c) Civil partnership   
        

d) Widowed    e) Divorced   f) Living with a partner   

 
 

3. Which of the following best describes your present work situation? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Employed   b) Self-employed    
        

c) Unemployed   d) Retired   

 
 
4. Has your employment position changed since we last contacted you about a year ago?  

(Please tick the box that best applies to you). 
   

 I did not have a paid job when you last contacted me, and I do not have a paid job now 
(Please go to Section 2 on page 8, starting at Question 45) 

  
  

 
 I have the same main job as when you last contacted me 

(Please go to Question 40 on page 7) 
  

  
   

 My employment position has changed since you last contacted me. 
(Please continue with Question 5) 

  
   

 
 
The following questions are only for those whose employment position has changed since 
we last contacted them.   
 
5. In the time since we last contacted you, have you left the main job you were doing at that 

time? 
   

 No, I did not have a job when lasted contacted. 
(Please go to Question 9 on page 2) 

  
  

 

 Yes 
 (Please continue with Question 6) 

  
  
 
 
6. When did you leave the job? 

 

           

   Month  Year  
 

 

Page | 1  



 Section One: About Yourself and Your Work  
 
7. Did you leave because of a health problem? (Tick one box) 

    

a) No, not at all        
       

b) Yes, a health problem was the main reason for leaving   
     

c) Yes, a health problem was part of the reason for leaving    
    

 
 
8. If there was a health problem, what type of problem was it? (Tick all the boxes that apply) 

    

a) A problem with your back, neck, arm, 
shoulder or leg 

  b) A mental health problem or stress   
       

        

c) A problem with your heart or lungs    d) Another type of health problem   
        

e) Not applicable, no health problem       

  
 
 
9. Do you currently have a paid job (whether employed or self-employed)?   

        

a) No   (Please go to Section 2 on page 8 starting at Question 45)  

        

b) Yes  (Please continue with Question 10)  

 
 
10. What is your MAIN occupation at the moment? 

   

a) Occupation (e.g. secretary, teacher, builder)  
  

 and in what industry do you work? 
  

b) Industry (e.g. farming, shipyard, car factory,  
shoe shop, hospital, insurance office) 

 

  
 
 
11. When did you start this job? 

            

           

   Month  Year  
 
 
12. Is your contract of employment permanent or temporary/renewable? 

        

a) Permanent   b) Temporary/renewable   c) Not applicable  
(self-employed) 

  
         

 
 
 
 

Page | 2  



 Section One: About Yourself and Your Work 
 
13. Roughly how many people in total work for your employer?  

(If self-employed, please indicate the number of people in total you employ)  
        

a) Just you   b)  2 – 9   c) 10 – 29   
        

d)  30 – 499    e) 500 or more   

 
 
14. Does your main job involve rotating or variable shifts? 

        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   

 
 
15. Does your main job involve night work (i.e. between 2.00 a.m. and 4.00 a.m.)? 

        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   

 
 
16. In your main job, does an average day at work involve any of the following activities?  

(Please tick yes or no for each activity) 
  

 

 
Yes   No 

      

a) Kneeling or squatting for longer than 1 hour per day in total     
      

b) Climbing a ladder     
      

c) Climbing up and down more than 30 flights of stairs per day     
      

d) Digging or shovelling     
      

e) Lifting weights of 10 kg (25 lbs) or more by hand     
      

f) Standing or walking for most of the day     
      

g) Standing or walking for more than 3 hours at a time     
      

h) Hard physical work that makes you hot or sweaty     

 
 
17. Is driving part of your main job?  

(Tick one box.  NB This does not include travel to or from your main place of work ) 
        

a) Essential to the job   b) A part of the job,  
but not essential 

 c)    No   
        

 
  

Page | 3  



 Section One: About Yourself and Your Work  
 
18. Ignoring overtime, does your main job give you a fixed salary, or are you paid according to 

your output (e.g. the number of tasks you do or things you make)? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Fixed salary   b) Paid by output   

 
 
19. In your main job, do you have a choice in deciding what you do, how you do things, or when 

you do things? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   

 
 
20. Do you have a fixed time when you have to begin work? (Tick one box) 

        

a) All work days   b) Most work days   c) Some work days   
        

d) Never (I choose for myself)     

 
 
21. How much holiday are you allowed from your job per year (including Bank Holidays)? 

(Answer a, or b) 
        

a)     Days       or b)   No fixed limit (Please tick) 

 
 
22. How much holiday do you take each year in your job (including Bank Holidays)? 

        

    days  

 
 
23. When you have difficulties at work, how often do you get help and support from your 

colleagues, supervisor or manager? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   
        

d) Not applicable 
(work alone) 

      

       

 
 
24. Do you ever lie awake at night worrying about work or angry about work? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   

 
 
25. How satisfied are you with the amount you are paid in your job, all things considered?  

(Tick one box) 
        

a) Very satisfied   b) Satisfied/fairly satisfied   
        

c) Dissatisfied   d) Very dissatisfied   

  

Page | 4  



 Section One: About Yourself and Your Work 
 
 
26. How satisfied are you with your working hours and your work timetable (e.g. start and finish 

time), all things considered? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Very satisfied   b) Satisfied/fairly satisfied   
        

c) Dissatisfied   d) Very dissatisfied   

 
 
27. Does your work give you a feeling of achievement? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   

 
 
28. In your work, do you feel appreciated by others (managers, colleagues, customers etc)?  

(Tick one box) 
        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   

 
 
29. Do you have friends at work with whom you also spend time outside work? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Yes   b) No   

 
 
30. Is there anyone at work you find very difficult to get on with? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Yes   b) No   

 
 
31. Do you ever get criticised unfairly at work? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   

 
 
32. How satisfied have you been with your job as a whole, taking everything into consideration?  

(Tick one box) 
        

a) Very satisfied   b) Satisfied/fairly satisfied   
        

c) Dissatisfied   d) Very dissatisfied   

 
 
33. Provided that you stay well, how secure do you feel your job is?  

(Tick one box) 
        

a) Very secure   b) Secure   
        

c) Rather insecure   d) Very insecure   

 
 
  

Page | 5  



 Section One: About Yourself and Your Work  
 
 
34. How secure do you feel your job would be if you had an illness that kept you off work for 

three months or more? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Very secure   b) Secure   
        

c) Rather insecure   d) Very insecure   

 
 
35. If you fell ill and were off work, how long could you get your normal full pay (excluding 

bonuses)? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Less than one week   b) 1 to 4 weeks   c) 1 to 6 months   
        

d) More than 6 months   e) Not sure   

 
 
36. If you had a long-term health problem, might you qualify for an ill-health retirement pension 

(from your employer or insurance)? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Yes   b) No   c) Don’t know   

 
 
37. Currently, how well do you cope with the physical demands of your job? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Easily   b) Just about   c) With some difficulty   
        

d) With great difficulty   e) Not coping   

 
 
38. Currently, how well do you cope with the mental demands of your job? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Easily   b) Just about   c) With some difficulty   
        

d) With great difficulty   e) Not coping   

 
 
39. Do you expect that you will still be able (physically and mentally) to carry out the same kind of 

work in two years time? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Yes   b) No   c) Not sure   

 
  

Page | 6  



 Section One: About Yourself and Your Work 
 
Questions 40 – 44 are only for those who are still in the same main job as 
when last contacted.  If this does not apply to you, please move to Section 2 
on page 8 starting with Question 45. 
 
 
40. Is your main job more or less the same as when we last contacted you (i.e. hours worked, 

tasks involved, support from managers and colleagues)?   
        

a) No    b) Yes  If yes, please move on to Question 42 

 
 
41. If no, how has your job changed since we last contacted you? 

        

 i) How has it changed?   

     

     
     

 ii) Have you reduced or changed what you do at work because of a health problem? 
      

 No        
        

 Yes  Please describe the health problems  

     

     

 
 
42. Currently, how well do you cope with the physical demands of your job?  

(Tick one box) 
        

a) Easily   b) With some difficulty   c) With great difficulty   
        

d) Not coping       

 
 
43. Currently, how well do you cope with the mental demands of your job? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Easily   b) With some difficulty   c) With great difficulty   
        

d) Not coping       

 
 
44. Do you expect that you will still be able (physically and mentally) to carry out the same kind of 

work in two years time? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Yes   b) No   c) Not sure   

 
 

 

Page | 7  



 Section Two: Personal Finance 
 
 
45. How well do you feel you are managing financially these days? (Tick the box that best applies) 

        

a) Living comfortably   b) Doing alright   
        

c) Just about getting by   d) Finding it difficult to make ends meet   
        

e) Finding it very difficult to make ends 
meet 

      
       

 
 
46. Are there things which you used to have, and which you would like to have now, but can no 

longer afford? (Tick one box) 
        

a) No   b) A few things   c) Many things   

 
47. Are there things which your friends or family have, that you would like to have but cannot 

afford? (Tick one box) 
        

a) No   b) A few things   c) Many things   

 
 
48. Are you currently receiving an ill-health retirement pension? 

        

a) No    b) Yes   

 
 
 

49. If you are already fully retired, please tick this box and move to Section 3 on page 9, 
starting at Question 53.  (Otherwise, please continue with question 50). 

  

  
 
 
50. At what age do you expect to retire fully?   

      

a)     years old  

 
 
51. Do you expect to reduce your paid work before you retire fully? (e.g. by working shorter hours 

for less pay) (Tick one box) 
      

a) No   b) Yes     c) Not sure   

 
 
52. In an ideal world, at what age would you like to retire fully?   

      

a)     years old or never    

 
 

 

Page | 8  



 Section Three: Health 
 
 
 
53. In general would you say your health is? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Excellent   b) Very good   c) Good   d) Fair   e) Poor   

 
 
54. How much of the following do you drink per week, on average?   

      

a) Beer, cider, 
lager 

  Pints  b) Wine, 
sherry 

  Glasses  c) Spirits, 
Liqueurs 

  measures 
          

 
 
55. Below are some statements about feelings and thoughts.  Please tick the box in each row 

that best describes your experience of each over the last 2 weeks (One tick for each row) 
       

  None of 
the time Rarely Some of 

the time Often All of 
the time 

       

a) I’ve been feeling optimistic about the future                
       

b) I’ve been feeling useful                
       

c) I’ve been feeling relaxed                
       

d) I’ve been feeling interested in other people                
                 

e) I’ve had energy to spare                
                 

f) I’ve been dealing with problems well                
                 

g) I’ve been thinking clearly                
                 

h) I’ve been feeling good about myself                
               

i) I’ve been feeling close to other people                
               

j) I’ve been feeling confident                
               

k) I’ve been able to make up my own mind 
about things 

               
              

l) I’ve been feeling loved                
               

m) I’ve been interested in new things                
               

n) I’ve been feeling cheerful                
                 

 
 
 

Page | 9 



 Section Three: Health (continued) 
 
 
 
56. Which of the following best describes your walking speed? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Unable to walk   b) Very slow   c) Stroll at an easy pace   
        

d) Normal pace   e) Fairly brisk   f) Fast   

 
 
57. Do you get short of breath walking with other people of your age on level ground? 

        

a) Yes   b) No       

 
 
58. Do you have to stop for breath when walking at your own pace on level ground? 

        

a) Yes   b) No       

 
 
59. Do you get pain or discomfort in your chest when hurrying or walking uphill? 

        

a) Yes   b) No       

 
 
60. Do you usually cough first thing in the morning in winter? 

        

a) Yes   b) No       

 
 
61. Have you had any falls in the past 12 months? (Tick one box) 

        

a) No falls   b) One fall   c) More than one fall   

 
 
62. Do you have problems with your memory? (Tick one box) 

        

a) No problems   b) Sometimes, but not a serious problem   c) serious problems   

 
 
63. Do you think your memory has got worse over the past 2 years? (Tick one box) 

        

a) No    b) A bit worse   c) A lot worse   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page | 10  



 Section Three: Health (continued) 
 
 
 
64. Do you have difficulty with any of the following activities?  (One tick for each row) 
      

  No  
problem 

Mild  
Problem 

Moderate 
Problem 

Severe 
Problem 

      

a) Walking             
      

b) Getting up from sitting             
      

c) Opening jars that have never been opened             
              

 
 
65. Below is a list of problems that people sometimes have.  Please read each one carefully and 

tick the box that best describes how much that problem has distressed or bothered you 
during the past 7 days including today (One tick for each row) 

            

   Not at 
all 

 A little 
bit 

 Moderately  Quite 
a bit 

 Extremely 

                      

a) Faintness or dizziness                     
                      

b) Pains in the heart or chest                     
                      

c) Nausea or upset stomach                     
                      

d) Trouble getting your breath                     
                      

e) Hot or cold spells                     
                      

 
 

66. How much have you been troubled by the following sleep problems in the past 3 months? 
(One tick for each row) 

      

  No  
problem 

Mild  
Problem 

Moderate 
Problem 

Severe 
Problem 

      

a) Difficulty falling asleep             
      

b) Difficulty staying asleep             
      

c) Waking up too early             
      

d) Not feeling refreshed in the morning             
              

 

  

Page | 11 



 Section Three: Health (continued) 
 

 

67. Below is a list of ways you might have felt or behaved – please tell us how often you have felt 
this way during the past 7 days including today (One tick for each row) 

 

   During the past 7 days 
   Rarely or 

none of the 
time (less 

than one day) 

 

Some or a 
little of the 

time 
(1-2 days) 

 

Occasionally or 
a moderate 

amount of the 
time (3-4 days) 

 

Most or all 
of the 
time 

(5-7 days) 
                  

a) I was bothered by things that usually didn’t 
bother me 

                

                 

b) I did not feel like eating; my appetite was poor                 
                  

c) I felt that I could not shake off feeling low, even 
with help from my family and/or friends 

                
                 

d) I felt I was just as good as other people                 
 

e) I had trouble keeping my mind on what I was 
doing 

                
                 

f) I felt depressed                 
                  

g) I felt that everything I did was an effort                 
                  

h) I felt hopeful about the future                 
                  

i) I thought my life had been a failure                 
                  

j) I felt fearful                 
                  

k) My sleep was restless                 
                  

l) I was happy                 
                  

m) I talked less than usual                 
                  

n) I felt lonely                 
                  

o) People were unfriendly                 
                  

p) I enjoyed life                 
                  

q) I had crying spells                 
                  

r) I felt sad                 
                  

s) I felt that people dislike me                 
                  

t) I could not get “going”                 
                  

 
 
 
 
 

Page | 12  



 Section Three: Health (continued) 
 
 
 
 
 
68. In the past 12 months have you lost more than 10 pounds (4.5 kg) unintentionally (i.e. without 

dieting or exercise)? 
        

a) Yes   b) No       

 
 
69. During the past 12 months, have you had pain in your BACK or NECK for a month or longer 

that made it difficult or impossible to get washed or dressed or do household chores? 
        

a) No   b) Yes       

 
 
70. During the past 12 months, have you had pain in your ARM(S) or SHOULDER(S) for a month or 

longer that made it difficult or impossible to get washed or dressed or to do household chores? 
        

a) No   b) Yes       

 
 
71. During the past 12 months, have you had pain in your LEG(S) for a month or longer that made 

it difficult or impossible to get washed or dressed or do household chores? 
        

a) No   b) Yes       

 
 
72. During the past 12 months, how many days have you had off work in total because of 

problems with your health? (Tick one box) 
  

a) No time   b) Less than 5 days   c) 5 to 20 days   
        

d) More than 20 days   or  e) Not applicable 
(not working over this time)  

  
         

 
 
73. During the past 12 months, how many days have you had off work in total because of pain in 

your back, neck, arms, shoulders or legs? (Tick one box) 
        

a) No time   b) Less than 5 days   c) 5 to 20 days   
        

d) More than 20 days   or  e)  Not applicable 
(not working over this time)  

  
        

 
 
74. During the past 12 months, have you had to cut down, avoid or change what you normally do 

at work because of health problems? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Yes, a lot   b) Yes, a little   c) No, not at all   
        

d)  Not applicable (not working over this time)         

 

Past 12 months 

Page | 13 



 
 

Section Three: Health (continued) 
75. Thinking back over the past month, have you had any aches or pains that have lasted for one 

day or longer?  
        

a) Yes   b) No       

 
If YES, please shade in the diagrams below where you feel, or have felt, these aches and 
pains: 

 

 
 

76. Referring to the aches and pains you shaded in the diagram above, have you been aware of 
these pains for more than three months? 

        

a) Yes   b) No   c) Not applicable   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

You have now finished.  Please place this form in the pre-paid envelope 
supplied and post it back to us 

THANK YOU! 

Page | 14  



 
 

 




