
 

 
 

MEDICAL RESEARCH COUNCIL 
 
 
 

 
 

FORM A       SERIAL NO: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Health & Employment After 
Fifty (HEAF Study): 

Follow-up Questionnaire 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

The answers given on this form are confidential. 
Replies will only been seen by a small medical research team 

 
VERSION 3  18 November 2015

  



 

Page | 1  

Section One: About Yourself and Your Work  

 

 

 Please fill in today’s date        2 0 1   

       Day  Month  Year  
 
1. Please fill in your date of birth             

       Day  Month  Year  
 
2. What is your current marital status? (Tick one box)  

            

a) Married   b) Single   c) Civil partnership   
        

d) Widowed    e) Divorced   f) Living with a partner   

 
3. In an average week, roughly how many hours would you spend doing the following 

activities? (Please answer each question) 
    
 Hours per week 
      

a) Working in a paid job (whether employed or self-employed)     
      

b) Giving personal care to someone in your home or family     
      

c) Working in an unpaid job for others outside your home and family (e.g. as a 
volunteer for a charity) 

    
     
      

d) Doing hobbies      

 
 
4. In an average week, and outside any paid jobs that you do, roughly how many hours would 

you spend doing the following activities? (Please answer each question) 
   
 Hours per week 

     

a) Physical activities sufficient to make you hot or sweaty (e.g. heavy gardening, 
dancing, cycling, jogging) 

   
     
      

b) Meeting or doing things with friends or relatives who do not live in your home    
 
 

5. Which of the following best describes your present work situation? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Employed   b) Self-employed   c) Unemployed   
        

d) Retired   e) Employed off sick   f) Self-employed off sick   

 
6. Has your employment position changed since we last contacted you about a year ago?  

(Please tick the box that best applies to you and follow the instructions). 
   

 I did not have a paid job when you last contacted me, and I do not have a paid job now 
(Please go to Section 2 on page 7, starting at Question 46) 

  
  

 
 I have the same main job as when you last contacted me 

(Please continue with Question 7) 
  

  
   

 My employment position has changed since you last contacted me. 
(Please skip the next two questions and go to Question 9 on page 2) 

  
   



 

Page | 2 

Section One: About Yourself and Your Work  
 
 
Questions 7 and 8 are only for people who are still in the same main job as when 
last contacted.   
 
7. Is your main job more or less the same as when we last contacted you (i.e. hours worked, 

tasks involved, support from managers and colleagues)?   
        

a) No    b) Yes  If yes, please move on to Question 29 on page 5 

 
8. If no, how has your job changed since we last contacted you? 

        

 i) How has it changed?   
 

     

     
     

 ii) Have you reduced or changed what you do at work because of a health problem? 
      

 No        
        

 Yes   Please describe the health problems and any changes your employer may have made to help 

     

     

     

 
If you have answered questions 7 and 8 and are still in the same main job as when we last 
contacted you please go to Question 29 on page 5 
 
 
 
9. In the time since we last contacted you, have you left the main job you were doing at that 

time? 
   

 No, I did not have a job when last contacted. 
(Please skip the next three questions and go to 
Question 13 on page 3) 

  
  

 

 Yes   
(Please continue with Question 10) 

  
  
 

10. When did you leave the job? 
 

           

   Month  Year  
 

11. Did you leave because of a health problem? (Tick one box) 
    

a) No, not at all        
       

b) Yes, a health problem was the main reason for leaving   
     

c) Yes, a health problem was part of the reason for leaving    
    



 

Page | 3  

Section One: About Yourself and Your Work  
 
12. If there was a health problem, what type of problem was it? (Tick all the boxes that apply) 

    

a) A problem with your back, neck, arm, 
shoulder or leg 

  b) A mental health problem or stress   
       

c) A problem with your heart or lungs        d) Another type of health problem   
        

e) Not applicable, no health problem       
 

13. Do you have a new paid job (whether employed or self-employed) since we last contacted 
you?   

        

a) No   (Please go to Section 2 on page 7 starting at Question 46)  
        

b) Yes  (Please continue with Question 14)  
 

14. What is your MAIN occupation at the moment? 
   

a) Occupation (e.g. secretary, teacher, builder)  
  

 and in what industry do you work? 
  

b) Industry (e.g. farming, shipyard, car factory,  
shoe shop, hospital, insurance office) 

 

  
 

15. When did you start this job? 
            

           

   Month  Year  
 

16. Is your contract of employment permanent or temporary/renewable? 
        

a) Permanent   b) Temporary/renewable   c) Not applicable  
(self-employed) 

  
         

 
17. Roughly how many people in total work for your employer?  

(If self-employed, please indicate the number of people in total you employ)  
        

a) Just you   b)  2 – 9   c) 10 – 29   
        

d)  30 – 499    e) 500 or more   
 

18. Does your main job involve rotating or variable shifts? 
        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   
 

19. Does your main job involve night work (i.e. between 2.00 a.m. and 4.00 a.m.)? 
        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   
 
20. Is driving part of your main job?  

(Tick one box.  NB This does not include travel to or from your main place of work ) 
        

a) Essential to the job   b) A part of the job,  
but not essential 

 c)    No   
        



 

Page | 4 

Section One: About Yourself and Your Work  
 
 
21. In your main job, does an average day at work involve any of the following activities?  

(Please tick yes or no for each activity) 
  

 

 
Yes   No 

a) Kneeling or squatting for longer than 1 hour per day in total     
      

b) Climbing a ladder     
      

c) Climbing up and down more than 30 flights of stairs per day     
      

d) Digging or shovelling     
      

e) Lifting weights of 10 kg (25 lbs) or more by hand     
      

f) Standing or walking for most of the day     
      

g) Standing or walking for more than 3 hours at a time     
      

h) Hard physical work that makes you hot or sweaty     
 
22. Ignoring overtime, does your main job give you a fixed salary, or are you paid according to 

your output (e.g. the number of tasks you do or things you make)? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Fixed salary   b) Paid by output   
 
23. In your main job, do you have a choice in deciding what you do, how you do things, or when 

you do things? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   
 

24. Do you have a fixed time when you have to begin work? (Tick one box) 
        

a) All work days   b) Most work days   c) Some work days   
        

d) Never (I choose for myself)     
 
25. How much holiday are you allowed from your job per year (including Bank Holidays)? 

(Answer a, or b) 
        

a)     Days       or b)   No fixed limit (Please tick) 
 

26. How much holiday do you take each year in your job (including Bank Holidays)? 
        

    days  
 
27. If you fell ill and were off work, how long could you get your normal full pay (excluding 

bonuses)? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Less than one week   b) 1 to 4 weeks   c) 1 to 6 months   
        

d) More than 6 months   e) Not sure   
 
28. If you had a long-term health problem, might you qualify for an ill-health retirement pension 

(from your employer or insurance)? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Yes   b) No   c) Don’t know   



 

Page | 5  

Section One: About Yourself and Your Work  
 
 
29. Do you have a zero hours contract? 

        

a) Yes   b) No       
         

 
30. When you have difficulties at work, how often do you get help and support from your 

colleagues, supervisor or manager? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   
        

d) Not applicable 
(work alone) 

      

       

 
31. Do you ever lie awake at night worrying about work or angry about work? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   

 
32. How satisfied are you with the amount you are paid in your job, all things considered?  

(Tick one box) 
        

a) Very satisfied   b) Satisfied/fairly satisfied   
        

c) Dissatisfied   d) Very dissatisfied   

 
33. How satisfied are you with your working hours and your work timetable (e.g. start and finish 

time), all things considered? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Very satisfied   b) Satisfied/fairly satisfied   
        

c) Dissatisfied   d) Very dissatisfied   

 
34. Does your work give you a feeling of achievement? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   

 
35. In your work, do you feel appreciated by others (managers, colleagues, customers etc)?  

(Tick one box) 
        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   

 
36. Do you have friends at work with whom you also spend time outside work? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Yes   b) No   

 
37. Is there anyone at work you find very difficult to get on with? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Yes   b) No   

 
38. Do you ever get criticised unfairly at work? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Often   b) Sometimes   c) Rarely/never   

 
 
 



 

Page | 6 

Section One: About Yourself and Your Work  
 
 
39. How satisfied have you been with your job as a whole, taking everything into consideration?  

(Tick one box) 
        

a) Very satisfied   b) Satisfied/fairly satisfied   
        

c) Dissatisfied   d) Very dissatisfied   

 
40. Provided that you stay well, how secure do you feel your job is?  

(Tick one box) 
        

a) Very secure   b) Secure   
        

c) Rather insecure   d) Very insecure   

 
41. How secure do you feel your job would be if you had an illness that kept you off work for 

three months or more? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Very secure   b) Secure   
        

c) Rather insecure   d) Very insecure   

 
42. Currently, how well do you cope with the physical demands of your job? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Easily   b) Just about   c) With some difficulty   
        

d) With great difficulty   e) Not coping   

 
43. Currently, how well do you cope with the mental demands of your job? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Easily   b) Just about   c) With some difficulty   
        

d) With great difficulty   e) Not coping   

 
44. Do you expect that you will still be able (physically and mentally) to carry out the same kind of 

work in two years time? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Yes   b) No   c) Not sure   

 
45. Does your job involve sitting for most of the day?   

        

a) Yes    b) No   

 
 

 



 

Page | 7  

Section Two: Personal Finance 
 

46. How well do you feel you are managing financially these days? (Tick the box that best applies) 
        

a) Living comfortably   b) Doing alright   
        

c) Just about getting by   d) Finding it difficult to make ends meet   
        

e) Finding it very difficult to make ends 
meet 

      
       

 
47. Are there things which you used to have, and which you would like to have now, but can no 

longer afford? (Tick one box) 
        

a) No   b) A few things   c) Many things   
 
48. Are there things which your friends or family have, that you would like to have but cannot 

afford? (Tick one box) 
        

a) No   b) A few things   c) Many things   
 

49.  Have you ever received any of the following benefits? (Please tick all that apply) 
      

a) Incapacity benefit   b) Invalidity benefit  
      

c) Disability Living Allowance (DLA)   d) Severe Disablement Allowance  
      

e) Personal Independence Payment (PIP)             f) Employment and Support Allowance (ESA)  
      

g) None of the above     

    
50. If yes, has a benefit ever been stopped as a result of an assessment? (Tick one box) 
 

a) Yes   b) No   c) Not applicable  
 

51. If yes, when was this? (if more than one benefit has been stopped, please record the first time this 
happened) 

 
           

   Month  Year  
 

52. Are you currently receiving an ill-health retirement pension? 
        

a) No    b) Yes   
 
 

53. If you are already fully retired, please tick this box and move to Section 3 on page 8, 
starting at Question 57.  (Otherwise, please continue with question 54). 

  

  
 

54. At what age do you expect to retire fully?   
      

a)     years old  

 
55. Do you expect to reduce your paid work before you retire fully? (e.g. by working shorter hours 

for less pay) (Tick one box) 
      

a) No   b) Yes   c) Not sure   



 

Page | 8 

Section Two: Personal Finance 
 

56. In an ideal world, at what age would you like to retire fully?   
      

a)     years old or never    
 

 
 
 
 
 

57. In general would you say your health is? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Excellent   b) Very good   c) Good   d) Fair   e) Poor   
 

58. How much of the following do you drink per week, on average?   
      

a) Beer, cider, 
lager 

  Pints  b) Wine, 
sherry 

  Glasses  c) Spirits, 
Liqueurs 

  measures 
          

 

59. Please give your weight   
                

 Weight    st   lbs      or    kg  
 
60. Below are some statements about feelings and thoughts.  Please tick the box in each row that 

best describes your experience of each over the last 2 weeks (One tick for each row) 
       

  None of 
the time Rarely Some of 

the time Often All of the 
time 

       

a) I’ve been feeling optimistic about the future                
       

b) I’ve been feeling useful                
       

c) I’ve been feeling relaxed                
       

d) I’ve been feeling interested in other people                
                 

e) I’ve had energy to spare                
                 

f) I’ve been dealing with problems well                
                 

g) I’ve been thinking clearly                
                 

h) I’ve been feeling good about myself                
               

i) I’ve been feeling close to other people                
               

j) I’ve been feeling confident                
               

k) I’ve been able to make up my own mind 
about things 

               
              

l) I’ve been feeling loved                
               

m) I’ve been interested in new things                
               

n) I’ve been feeling cheerful                
                 

Section Three: Health  



 

Page | 9  

Section Three: Health  
 
 
61. Which of the following best describes your walking speed? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Unable to walk   b) Very slow   c) Stroll at an easy pace   
        

d) Normal pace   e) Fairly brisk   f) Fast   

 
 
62. Have you had any falls in the past 12 months? (Tick one box) 

        

a) No falls   b) One fall   c) More than one fall   

 
 
63. Do you have difficulty with any of the following activities?  (One tick for each row) 
      
  No  

problem 
Mild  

Problem 
Moderate 
Problem 

Severe 
Problem 

      

a) Walking             
      

b) Getting up from sitting             
      

c) Opening jars that have never been opened             
              

 
 
64. How much have you been troubled by the following sleep problems in the past 3 months? 

(One tick for each row) 
      
  No  

problem 
Mild  

Problem 
Moderate 
Problem 

Severe 
Problem 

      

a) Difficulty falling asleep             
      

b) Difficulty staying asleep             
      

c) Waking up too early             
      

d) Not feeling refreshed in the morning             
              

 

  



 

Page | 10 

Section Three: Health  
 

65. Below is a list of ways you might have felt or behaved – please tell us how often you have felt 
this way during the past 7 days including today (One tick for each row) 

 

   During the past 7 days 
   Rarely or 

none of the 
time (less 

than one day) 

 

Some or a 
little of the 

time 
(1-2 days) 

 

Occasionally or 
a moderate 

amount of the 
time (3-4 days) 

 

Most or all 
of the 
time 

(5-7 days) 
                  

a) I was bothered by things that usually didn’t 
bother me 

                

                 

b) I did not feel like eating; my appetite was poor                 
                  

c) I felt that I could not shake off feeling low, even 
with help from my family and/or friends 

                
                 

d) I felt I was just as good as other people                 
 

e) I had trouble keeping my mind on what I was 
doing 

                
                 

f) I felt depressed                 
                  

g) I felt that everything I did was an effort                 
                  

h) I felt hopeful about the future                 
                  

i) I thought my life had been a failure                 
                  

j) I felt fearful                 
                  

k) My sleep was restless                 
                  

l) I was happy                 
                  

m) I talked less than usual                 
                  

n) I felt lonely                 
                  

o) People were unfriendly                 
                  

p) I enjoyed life                 
                  

q) I had crying spells                 
                  

r) I felt sad                 
                  

s) I felt that people dislike me                 
                  

t) I could not get “going”                 
                  

 
 
On the next two pages we are going to ask you a few questions about the food 
you eat. 
 



 

Page | 11  

Section Three: Health  
 
66. Approximately how many times, over the past 3 months, have you have eaten each of the 

particular foods found within the table below. 
 
Please complete the table, by circling the number in the appropriate box. Please circle a number on every 
line. 

 FOOD AND 
AMOUNTS AVERAGE USE IN PAST 3 MONTHS 

   
Never 

Less 
than 
once/ 
month 

1-3 
per 

month 

Once 
a 

week 

2-4 
per 

week 

5-6 
per 

week 

Once 
a 

day 

2-3 
per 
day 

4-5 
per 
day 

6+ per 
day 

1.  White bread (one slice) 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

2.  Brown and wholemeal bread 
(one slice) 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

3.  Biscuits eg digestive (one) 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

4.  Apples (one fruit) 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

5.  Bananas (one fruit) 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

6.  Melon, pineapple, kiwi and other 
tropical fruits (medium serving) 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

7.  Green salad eg lettuce, 
cucumber, celery 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

8.  Garlic – raw and cooked dishes 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

9.  Marrow and courgettes 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

10.  Peppers – cooked & fresh 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

11.  Yogurt (125g pot) 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

12.  Eggs as boiled, fried, scrambled 
etc. (one egg) 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

13.  White fish eg cod, haddock, 
plaice, sole (not in batter/crumbs) 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

14.  Oily fish, eg. mackerel, tuna, 
salmon 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

15.  Bacon and Gammon 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

16.  Meat pies, eg. pork pie, pasties, 
steak & kidney, sausage rolls  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

17.  Boiled, mashed and jacket 
potatoes  (one egg size potato) 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

18.  Chips 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

19.  Pasta eg spaghetti, macaroni 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

Which is the main spreading fat you have used for example on bread, toast or vegetables? 

20.  Spreading fat (teaspoon) 
Please name the spreading fat 
you use -
__________________________ 

0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 



 

Page | 12 

Section Three: Health  
 

67. Which types of milk have you used regularly in drinks and added to breakfast cereals over 
the past three months? 
 

In the table below, please write in, on average, how much of each milk type you have consumed per 
day, over the past 3 months.  

If you do not consume milk please place a tick beside None and continue to Question 68. 
 

  
Type of milk 

 
Please 

tick 

 
On average, over the past 3 months, how much 

milk have you consumed per day? 

EXAMPLE  
 
Whole  

 
 
 

 
0.5 pints or ½ pint per day 

    

 
a) 

 
Whole pasteurised or UHT 
 

  
______ pints per day 

 
b) 

 
Semi-skimmed pasteurised 
(include 1% milks) or UHT 
 

  

______ pints per day 

 
c) 

 
Skimmed pasteurised or UHT 
 
 

  
______ pints per day 

 
d) 

 
Other (Please specify) 
 
______________________ 
 

  
______ pints per day 

 
e) 

 
None (go to Q68) 
 

  

 
 
68. Have you added sugar to tea and coffee or breakfast cereals in the past 3 months? 

        

a) Yes    b) No   

 
 
69. If yes, approximately how many teaspoons of sugar have you added each day? 

        

    teaspoons  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 



 

Page | 13  

Section Three: Health  
 
 
 
 
 
70. In the past 12 months have you lost more than 10 pounds (4.5 kg) unintentionally (i.e. without 

dieting or exercise)? 
        

a) Yes   b) No       

 
 
71. During the past 12 months, have you had pain in your BACK or NECK for a month or longer 

that made it difficult or impossible to get washed or dressed or do household chores? 
        

a) No   b) Yes       

 
 
72 During the past 12 months, have you had pain in your ARM(S) or SHOULDER(S) for a month or 

longer that made it difficult or impossible to get washed or dressed or to do household chores? 
        

a) No   b) Yes       

 
 
73. During the past 12 months, have you had pain in your LEG(S) for a month or longer that made 

it difficult or impossible to get washed or dressed or do household chores? 
        

a) No   b) Yes       

 
 
74. During the past 12 months, how many days have you had off work in total because of 

problems with your health? (Tick one box) 
  

a) No time   b) Less than 5 days   c) 5 to 20 days   
        

d) More than 20 days   or  e) Not applicable 
(not working over this time)  

  
         

 
 
75. During the past 12 months, how many days have you had off work in total because of pain in 

your back, neck, arms, shoulders or legs? (Tick one box) 
        

a) No time   b) Less than 5 days   c) 5 to 20 days   
        

d) More than 20 days   or  e)  Not applicable 
(not working over this time)  

  
        

 
 
76. During the past 12 months, have you had to cut down, avoid or change what you normally do 

at work because of health problems? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Yes, a lot   b) Yes, a little   c) No, not at all   
        

d)  Not applicable (not working over this time)         

 
  

Past 12 months 



 

Page | 14 

Section Three: Health  
 

77. Thinking back over the past month, have you had any aches or pains that have lasted for one 
day or longer? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Yes   b) No       

 
If YES, please shade in the diagrams below where you feel, or have felt, these aches and 
pains: 

 

 
 

78. Referring to the aches and pains you shaded in the diagram above, have you been aware of 
these pains for more than three months? (Tick one box) 

        

a) Yes   b) No   c) Not applicable   
 

79. Has a doctor ever told you that you have osteoarthritis? (Tick one box) 
        

a) Yes   b) No   c) Not sure   

 
 

 
 
 
 

 You have now finished FORM A.   
Please also complete FORM B, and post both forms back in the pre-paid 

envelope supplied.   THANK YOU! 



 

 

 
 




	FOOD AND AMOUNTS
	AVERAGE USE IN PAST 3 MONTHS
	EXAMPLE 


